tutorials/scripting/c_sharp/index.rst, before:

:allow_comments: False

.. _doc_c_sharp:

C#/.NET
=======

C# is a high-level programming language developed by Microsoft. Godot supports
C# as an option for a scripting language, alongside Godot's own
:ref:`GDScript <doc_gdscript>`.

The standard Godot executable does not contain C# support out of the box. Instead,
to enable C# support for your project you need to `download a .NET version <https://godotengine.org/download/>`_
of the editor from the Godot website.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :name: toc-learn-scripting-C#

   c_sharp_basics
   c_sharp_features
   c_sharp_style_guide
   diagnostics/index

Godot API for C#
----------------

As a general purpose game engine Godot offers some high-level features as a part
of its API. Articles below explain how these features integrate into C# and how
C# API may be different from GDScript.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :name: toc-learn-scripting-C#-differences

   c_sharp_differences
   c_sharp_collections
   c_sharp_variant
   c_sharp_signals
   c_sharp_exports
   c_sharp_global_classes

.. _doc_c_sharp_platforms:

C# platform support
-------------------

.. seealso::

    See :ref:`doc_system_requirements` for hardware and software version
    requirements for the Godot engine.

.. note::

    Since C# projects use the .NET runtime, also check the system requirements
    for the version of .NET that you'll be using.
    See `supported OS <https://github.com/dotnet/core/tree/main/release-notes#supported-os>`_.

Since Godot 4.2, projects written in C# support all desktop platforms (Windows, Linux,
and macOS), as well as Android and iOS.

Android support is currently experimental.

iOS support is currently experimental and has a few limitations.

- The official export templates for the iOS simulator only supports the ``x64`` architecture.

- Exporting to iOS can only be done from a MacOS device.

Currently, projects written in C# cannot be exported to the web platform. To use C#
on that platform, consider Godot 3 instead.

Commit message:

[.NET] Document web support and limitations

tutorials/scripting/c_sharp/index.rst, after:

:allow_comments: False

.. _doc_c_sharp:

C#/.NET
=======

C# is a high-level programming language developed by Microsoft. Godot supports
C# as an option for a scripting language, alongside Godot's own
:ref:`GDScript <doc_gdscript>`.

The standard Godot executable does not contain C# support out of the box. Instead,
to enable C# support for your project you need to `download a .NET version <https://godotengine.org/download/>`_
of the editor from the Godot website.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :name: toc-learn-scripting-C#

   c_sharp_basics
   c_sharp_features
   c_sharp_style_guide
   diagnostics/index

Godot API for C#
----------------

As a general purpose game engine Godot offers some high-level features as a part
of its API. Articles below explain how these features integrate into C# and how
C# API may be different from GDScript.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :name: toc-learn-scripting-C#-differences

   c_sharp_differences
   c_sharp_collections
   c_sharp_variant
   c_sharp_signals
   c_sharp_exports
   c_sharp_global_classes

.. _doc_c_sharp_platforms:

C# platform support
-------------------

.. seealso::

    See :ref:`doc_system_requirements` for hardware and software version
    requirements for the Godot engine.

.. note::

    Since C# projects use the .NET runtime, also check the system requirements
    for the version of .NET that you'll be using.
    See `supported OS <https://github.com/dotnet/core/tree/main/release-notes#supported-os>`_.

Since Godot 4.2, projects written in C# support all desktop platforms (Windows, Linux,
and macOS), as well as Android and iOS. And since 4.5, web is supported too.

Android support is currently experimental.

iOS support is currently experimental and has a few limitations.

- The official export templates for the iOS simulator only supports the ``x64`` architecture.

- Exporting to iOS can only be done from a MacOS device.

Web support is currently experimental and has a few limitations.

- The WASM features enabled in the C# project must match the ones enabled by the template used to export the project.

- Globalization is not supported, `invariant mode <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/runtime-config/globalization#invariant-mode>`_ is always enabled on exported games. This does not affect Godot's localization features, only .NET APIs.

- .NET APIs implemented using browser APIs (such as cryptography) are not available and may fail in unexpected ways.
