tutorials/ui/gui_containers.rst, before:

.. _doc_gui_containers:

Using Containers
================

:ref:`Anchors <doc_size_and_anchors>` are an efficient way to handle
different aspect ratios for basic multiple resolution handling in GUIs.

For more complex user interfaces, they can become difficult to use.

This is often the case of games, such as RPGs, online chats, tycoons or simulations. Another
common case where more advanced layout features may be required is in-game tools (or simply just tools).

All these situations require a more capable OS-like user interface, with advanced layout and formatting.
For that, :ref:`Containers <class_container>` are more useful.

Container layout
----------------

Containers provide a huge amount of layout power (as an example, the Godot editor user interface is entirely done using them):

   .. image:: img/godot_containers.png

When a :ref:`Container <class_Container>`-derived node is used, all children :ref:`Control <class_Control>` nodes give up their
own positioning ability. This means the *Container* will control their positioning and any attempt to manually alter these
nodes will be either ignored or invalidated the next time their parent is resized.

Likewise, when a *Container* derived node is resized, all its children will be re-positioned according to it,
with a behavior based on the type of container used:

   .. image:: img/container_example.gif

Example of *HBoxContainer* resizing children buttons.

The real strength of containers is that they can be nested (as nodes), allowing the creation of very complex layouts that resize effortlessly.

Sizing options
--------------

When adding a node to a container, the way the container treats each child depends mainly on their *container sizing options*. These options
can be found by inspecting the layout of any *Control* that is a child of a *Container*.

   .. image:: img/container_sizing_options.webp

Sizing options are independent for vertical and horizontal sizing and not all containers make use of them (but most do):

* **Fill**: Ensures the control *fills* the designated area within the container. No matter if
  a control *expands* or not (see below), it will only *fill* the designated area when this is toggled on (it is by default).
* **Expand**: Attempts to use as much space as possible in the parent container (in each axis).
  Controls that don't expand will be pushed away by those that do. Between expanding controls, the
  amount of space they take from each other is determined by the *Stretch Ratio* (see below).
  This option is only available when the parent Container is of the right type, for example the *HBoxContainer* has this option
  for horizontal sizing.
* **Shrink Begin** When expanding, try to remain at the left or top of the expanded
  area.
* **Shrink Center** When expanding, try to remain at the center of the expanded
  area.
* **Shrink End** When expanding, try to remain at the right or bottom of the expanded
  area.
* **Stretch Ratio**: The ratio of how much expanded controls take up the available space in relation to each
  other. A control with "2", will take up twice as much available space as one with "1".

Experimenting with these flags and different containers is recommended to get a better grasp on how they work.

Container types
---------------

Godot provides several container types out of the box as they serve different purposes:

Box Containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arranges child controls vertically or horizontally (via :ref:`HBoxContainer <class_HBoxContainer>` and
:ref:`VBoxContainer <class_VBoxContainer>`). In the opposite of the designated direction
(as in, vertical for a horizontal container), it just expands the children.

   .. image:: img/containers_box.png

These containers make use of the *Stretch Ratio* property for children with the *Expand* flag set.

Grid Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arranges child controls in a grid layout (via :ref:`GridContainer <class_GridContainer>`, amount
of columns must be specified). Uses both the vertical and horizontal expand flags.

   .. image:: img/containers_grid.png

Margin Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Child controls are expanded towards the bounds of this control (via
:ref:`MarginContainer <class_MarginContainer>`). Padding will be added on the margins
depending on the theme configuration.

   .. image:: img/containers_margin.png

Again, keep in mind that the margins are a *Theme* value, so they need to be edited from the
constants overrides section of each control:

   .. image:: img/containers_margin_constants.png

Tab Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Allows you to place several child controls stacked on top of each other (via
:ref:`TabContainer <class_TabContainer>`), with only the *current* one visible.

   .. image:: img/containers_tab.png

Changing the *current* one is done via tabs located at the top of the container, via clicking:

   .. image:: img/containers_tab_click.gif

The titles are generated from the node names by default (although they can be overridden via *TabContainer* API).

Settings such as tab placement and *StyleBox* can be modified in the *TabContainer* theme overrides.

Split Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Accepts only one or two children controls, then places them side to side with a divisor
(via :ref:`HSplitContainer <class_HSplitContainer>` and :ref:`VSplitContainer <class_VSplitContainer>`).
Respects both horizontal and vertical flags, as well as *Ratio*.

   .. image:: img/containers_split.png

The divisor can be dragged around to change the size relation between both children:

   .. image:: img/containers_split_drag.gif


PanelContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container that draws a *StyleBox*, then expands children to cover its whole area
(via :ref:`PanelContainer <class_PanelContainer>`, respecting the *StyleBox* margins).
It respects both the horizontal and vertical sizing options.

   .. image:: img/containers_panel.png

This container is useful as a top-level control, or just to add custom backgrounds to sections of a layout.

FoldableContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container that can be expanded/collapsed
(via :ref:`FoldableContainer <class_FoldableContainer>`).
Child controls are hidden when it is collapsed.

ScrollContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Accepts a single child node. If the child node is bigger than the container, scrollbars will be added
to allow panning the node around (via :ref:`ScrollContainer <class_ScrollContainer>`). Both
vertical and horizontal size options are respected, and the behavior can be turned on or off
per axis in the properties.

   .. image:: img/containers_scroll.png

Mouse wheel and touch drag (when touch is available) are also valid ways to pan the child control around.

   .. image:: img/containers_center_pan.gif

As in the example above, one of the most common ways to use this container is together with a *VBoxContainer* as child.

AspectRatioContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container type that arranges its child controls in a way that preserves their proportions
automatically when the container is resized.
(via :ref:`AspectRatioContainer <class_AspectRatioContainer>`).
It has multiple stretch modes, providing options for adjusting the child controls' sizes concerning the container:
"fill," "width control height," "height control width," and "cover."

   .. image:: img/containers_aspectratio.webp

It is useful when you have a container that needs to be dynamic and responsive to different screen sizes,
and you want the child elements to scale proportionally without losing their intended shapes.

   .. image:: img/containers_aspectratio_drag.webp

FlowContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FlowContainer is a container that arranges its child controls either horizontally or vertically
(via :ref:`HFlowContainer <class_HFlowContainer>` and via :ref:`VFlowContainer <class_VFlowContainer>`).
When the available space runs out, it wraps the children to the next line or column, similar to how text wraps in a book.


   .. image:: img/containers_hflow.webp

It is useful for creating flexible layouts where the child controls adjust automatically to the available space without overlapping.

   .. image:: img/containers_hflow_drag.webp

CenterContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CenterContainer is a container that automatically keeps all of its child controls centered within it at their minimum size.
It ensures that the child controls are always aligned to the center, making it easier to create centered layouts without manual positioning
(via :ref:`CenterContainer <class_CenterContainer>`).

   .. image:: img/containers_center.webp

   .. image:: img/containers_center_drag.webp

SubViewportContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a special control that will only accept a single *Viewport* node as child, and it will display
it as if it was an image (via :ref:`SubViewportContainer <class_SubViewportContainer>`).

Creating custom Containers
--------------------------

It is possible to create a custom container using a script.
Here is an example of a container that fits children to its size:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    extends Container

    func _notification(what):
        if what == NOTIFICATION_SORT_CHILDREN:
            # Must re-sort the children
            for c in get_children():
                # Fit to own size
                fit_child_in_rect(c, Rect2(Vector2(), size))

    func set_some_setting():
        # Some setting changed, ask for children re-sort.
        queue_sort()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    public partial class CustomContainer : Container
    {
        public override void _Notification(int what)
        {
            if (what == NotificationSortChildren)
            {
                // Must re-sort the children
                foreach (Control c in GetChildren())
                {
                    // Fit to own size
                    FitChildInRect(c, new Rect2(new Vector2(), Size));
                }
            }
        }

        public void SetSomeSetting()
        {
            // Some setting changed, ask for children re-sort.
            QueueSort();
        }
    }

Commit message:

docs: clarify Control layout behavior inside Containers

tutorials/ui/gui_containers.rst, after:

.. _doc_gui_containers:

Using Containers
================

:ref:`Anchors <doc_size_and_anchors>` are an efficient way to handle
different aspect ratios for basic multiple resolution handling in GUIs.

For more complex user interfaces, they can become difficult to use.

This is often the case of games, such as RPGs, online chats, tycoons or simulations. Another
common case where more advanced layout features may be required is in-game tools (or simply just tools).

All these situations require a more capable OS-like user interface, with advanced layout and formatting.
For that, :ref:`Containers <class_container>` are more useful.

Container layout
----------------
Controls inside Containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A Control node can be laid out either manually or by a Container, depending on its context.
When a Control node is not inside a Container, its position and size are controlled using anchors, offsets, and layout presets.
When a Control node is a direct child of a Container, the Container automatically manages its layout. 
In this case, manual positioning options such as anchors and presets no longer affect the Control, as the Container enforces its own layout rules.
This behavior is expected. Containers are designed to ensure consistent and predictable layout of their children. To influence layout inside Containers,
 use size flags, minimum size, and the rules specific to the Container type being used.

Containers provide a huge amount of layout power (as an example, the Godot editor user interface is entirely done using them):

   .. image:: img/godot_containers.png

When a :ref:`Container <class_Container>`-derived node is used, all children :ref:`Control <class_Control>` nodes give up their
own positioning ability. This means the *Container* will control their positioning and any attempt to manually alter these
nodes will be either ignored or invalidated the next time their parent is resized.

Likewise, when a *Container* derived node is resized, all its children will be re-positioned according to it,
with a behavior based on the type of container used:

   .. image:: img/container_example.gif

Example of *HBoxContainer* resizing children buttons.

The real strength of containers is that they can be nested (as nodes), allowing the creation of very complex layouts that resize effortlessly.

Sizing options
--------------

When adding a node to a container, the way the container treats each child depends mainly on their *container sizing options*. These options
can be found by inspecting the layout of any *Control* that is a child of a *Container*.

   .. image:: img/container_sizing_options.webp

Sizing options are independent for vertical and horizontal sizing and not all containers make use of them (but most do):

* **Fill**: Ensures the control *fills* the designated area within the container. No matter if
  a control *expands* or not (see below), it will only *fill* the designated area when this is toggled on (it is by default).
* **Expand**: Attempts to use as much space as possible in the parent container (in each axis).
  Controls that don't expand will be pushed away by those that do. Between expanding controls, the
  amount of space they take from each other is determined by the *Stretch Ratio* (see below).
  This option is only available when the parent Container is of the right type, for example the *HBoxContainer* has this option
  for horizontal sizing.
* **Shrink Begin** When expanding, try to remain at the left or top of the expanded
  area.
* **Shrink Center** When expanding, try to remain at the center of the expanded
  area.
* **Shrink End** When expanding, try to remain at the right or bottom of the expanded
  area.
* **Stretch Ratio**: The ratio of how much expanded controls take up the available space in relation to each
  other. A control with "2", will take up twice as much available space as one with "1".

Experimenting with these flags and different containers is recommended to get a better grasp on how they work.

Container types
---------------

Godot provides several container types out of the box as they serve different purposes:

Box Containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arranges child controls vertically or horizontally (via :ref:`HBoxContainer <class_HBoxContainer>` and
:ref:`VBoxContainer <class_VBoxContainer>`). In the opposite of the designated direction
(as in, vertical for a horizontal container), it just expands the children.

   .. image:: img/containers_box.png

These containers make use of the *Stretch Ratio* property for children with the *Expand* flag set.

Grid Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arranges child controls in a grid layout (via :ref:`GridContainer <class_GridContainer>`, amount
of columns must be specified). Uses both the vertical and horizontal expand flags.

   .. image:: img/containers_grid.png

Margin Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Child controls are expanded towards the bounds of this control (via
:ref:`MarginContainer <class_MarginContainer>`). Padding will be added on the margins
depending on the theme configuration.

   .. image:: img/containers_margin.png

Again, keep in mind that the margins are a *Theme* value, so they need to be edited from the
constants overrides section of each control:

   .. image:: img/containers_margin_constants.png

Tab Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Allows you to place several child controls stacked on top of each other (via
:ref:`TabContainer <class_TabContainer>`), with only the *current* one visible.

   .. image:: img/containers_tab.png

Changing the *current* one is done via tabs located at the top of the container, via clicking:

   .. image:: img/containers_tab_click.gif

The titles are generated from the node names by default (although they can be overridden via *TabContainer* API).

Settings such as tab placement and *StyleBox* can be modified in the *TabContainer* theme overrides.

Split Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Accepts only one or two children controls, then places them side to side with a divisor
(via :ref:`HSplitContainer <class_HSplitContainer>` and :ref:`VSplitContainer <class_VSplitContainer>`).
Respects both horizontal and vertical flags, as well as *Ratio*.

   .. image:: img/containers_split.png

The divisor can be dragged around to change the size relation between both children:

   .. image:: img/containers_split_drag.gif


PanelContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container that draws a *StyleBox*, then expands children to cover its whole area
(via :ref:`PanelContainer <class_PanelContainer>`, respecting the *StyleBox* margins).
It respects both the horizontal and vertical sizing options.

   .. image:: img/containers_panel.png

This container is useful as a top-level control, or just to add custom backgrounds to sections of a layout.

FoldableContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container that can be expanded/collapsed
(via :ref:`FoldableContainer <class_FoldableContainer>`).
Child controls are hidden when it is collapsed.

ScrollContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Accepts a single child node. If the child node is bigger than the container, scrollbars will be added
to allow panning the node around (via :ref:`ScrollContainer <class_ScrollContainer>`). Both
vertical and horizontal size options are respected, and the behavior can be turned on or off
per axis in the properties.

   .. image:: img/containers_scroll.png

Mouse wheel and touch drag (when touch is available) are also valid ways to pan the child control around.

   .. image:: img/containers_center_pan.gif

As in the example above, one of the most common ways to use this container is together with a *VBoxContainer* as child.

AspectRatioContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A container type that arranges its child controls in a way that preserves their proportions
automatically when the container is resized.
(via :ref:`AspectRatioContainer <class_AspectRatioContainer>`).
It has multiple stretch modes, providing options for adjusting the child controls' sizes concerning the container:
"fill," "width control height," "height control width," and "cover."

   .. image:: img/containers_aspectratio.webp

It is useful when you have a container that needs to be dynamic and responsive to different screen sizes,
and you want the child elements to scale proportionally without losing their intended shapes.

   .. image:: img/containers_aspectratio_drag.webp

FlowContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FlowContainer is a container that arranges its child controls either horizontally or vertically
(via :ref:`HFlowContainer <class_HFlowContainer>` and via :ref:`VFlowContainer <class_VFlowContainer>`).
When the available space runs out, it wraps the children to the next line or column, similar to how text wraps in a book.


   .. image:: img/containers_hflow.webp

It is useful for creating flexible layouts where the child controls adjust automatically to the available space without overlapping.

   .. image:: img/containers_hflow_drag.webp

CenterContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CenterContainer is a container that automatically keeps all of its child controls centered within it at their minimum size.
It ensures that the child controls are always aligned to the center, making it easier to create centered layouts without manual positioning
(via :ref:`CenterContainer <class_CenterContainer>`).

   .. image:: img/containers_center.webp

   .. image:: img/containers_center_drag.webp

SubViewportContainer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a special control that will only accept a single *Viewport* node as child, and it will display
it as if it was an image (via :ref:`SubViewportContainer <class_SubViewportContainer>`).

Creating custom Containers
--------------------------

It is possible to create a custom container using a script.
Here is an example of a container that fits children to its size:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    extends Container

    func _notification(what):
        if what == NOTIFICATION_SORT_CHILDREN:
            # Must re-sort the children
            for c in get_children():
                # Fit to own size
                fit_child_in_rect(c, Rect2(Vector2(), size))

    func set_some_setting():
        # Some setting changed, ask for children re-sort.
        queue_sort()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    public partial class CustomContainer : Container
    {
        public override void _Notification(int what)
        {
            if (what == NotificationSortChildren)
            {
                // Must re-sort the children
                foreach (Control c in GetChildren())
                {
                    // Fit to own size
                    FitChildInRect(c, new Rect2(new Vector2(), Size));
                }
            }
        }

        public void SetSomeSetting()
        {
            // Some setting changed, ask for children re-sort.
            QueueSort();
        }
    }
