engine_details/development/compiling/compiling_with_script_encryption_key.rst, before:

.. _doc_compiling_with_script_encryption_key:

Compiling with PCK encryption key
=================================

.. highlight:: shell

The export dialog gives you the option to encrypt your PCK file with a 256-bit
AES key when releasing your project. This will make sure your scenes, scripts
and other resources are not stored in plain text and can not easily be ripped
by some script kiddie.

Of course, the key needs to be stored in the binary, but if it's compiled,
optimized and without symbols, it would take some effort to find it.

For this to work, you need to build the export templates from source,
with that same key.

.. warning::

    This will **not** work if you use official, precompiled export templates.
    It is absolutely **required** to compile your own export templates to use
    PCK encryption.

Step by step
------------

1. Generate a 256-bit AES key in hexadecimal format. You can use the aes-256-cbc variant from
   `this service <https://asecuritysite.com/encryption/keygen>`_.

   Alternatively, you can generate it yourself using
   `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`__ command-line tools:

   ::

       openssl rand -hex 32 > godot.gdkey

   The output in ``godot.gdkey`` should be similar to:

   ::

       # NOTE: Do not use the key below! Generate your own key instead.
       aeb1bc56aaf580cc31784e9c41551e9ed976ecba10d315db591e749f3f64890f

   You can generate the key without redirecting the output to a file, but
   that way you can minimize the risk of exposing the key.

2. Set this key as environment variable in the console that you will use to
   compile Godot, like this:

   .. tabs::
    .. code-tab:: bash Linux/macOS

       export SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY="your_generated_key"

    .. code-tab:: bat Windows (cmd)

       set SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your_generated_key

    .. code-tab:: bat Windows (PowerShell)

       $env:SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY="your_generated_key"

3. Compile Godot export templates and set them as custom export templates
   in the export preset options.

4. Set the encryption key in the **Encryption** tab of the export preset:

   .. image:: img/encryption_key.png

5. Add filters for the files/folders to encrypt. **By default**, include filters
   are empty and **nothing will be encrypted**.

6. Export the project. The project should run with the files encrypted now.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If you get an error like below, it means the key wasn't properly included in
your Godot build. Godot is encrypting PCK file during export, but can't read
it at runtime.

::

   ERROR: open_and_parse: Condition "String::md5(md5.digest) != String::md5(md5d)" is true. Returning: ERR_FILE_CORRUPT
      At: core/io/file_access_encrypted.cpp:103

Commit message:

Clarify environment variable behavior in Compiling with PCK encryption key

engine_details/development/compiling/compiling_with_script_encryption_key.rst, after:

.. _doc_compiling_with_script_encryption_key:

Compiling with PCK encryption key
=================================

.. highlight:: shell

The export dialog gives you the option to encrypt your PCK file with a 256-bit
AES key when releasing your project. This will make sure your scenes, scripts
and other resources are not stored in plain text and can not easily be ripped
by some script kiddie.

Of course, the key needs to be stored in the binary, but if it's compiled,
optimized and without symbols, it would take some effort to find it.

For this to work, you need to build the export templates from source,
with that same key.

.. warning::

    This will **not** work if you use official, precompiled export templates.
    It is absolutely **required** to compile your own export templates to use
    PCK encryption.

Step by step
------------

1. Generate a 256-bit AES key in hexadecimal format. You can use the aes-256-cbc variant from
   `this service <https://asecuritysite.com/encryption/keygen>`_.

   Alternatively, you can generate it yourself using
   `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`__ command-line tools:

   ::

       openssl rand -hex 32 > godot.gdkey

   The output in ``godot.gdkey`` should be similar to:

   ::

       # NOTE: Do not use the key below! Generate your own key instead.
       aeb1bc56aaf580cc31784e9c41551e9ed976ecba10d315db591e749f3f64890f

   You can generate the key without redirecting the output to a file, but
   that way you can minimize the risk of exposing the key.

2. Set this key as environment variable in the console that you will use to
   compile Godot, like this:

   .. tabs::
    .. code-tab:: bash Linux/macOS

       export SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY="your_generated_key"

    .. code-tab:: bat Windows (cmd)

       set SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your_generated_key

    .. code-tab:: bat Windows (PowerShell)

       $env:SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY="your_generated_key"

   Note that the commands suggested above do **not** persist the variables
   across terminal sessions.

3. Compile Godot export templates and set them as custom export templates
   in the export preset options. If the environment variable is set correctly,
   the following message is printed at the beginning of compilation:

   ::

      *** IMPORTANT: Compiling Godot with custom `SCRIPT_AES256_ENCRYPTION_KEY` set as environment variable.
      *** Make sure to use templates compiled with this key when exporting a project with encryption.

4. Set the encryption key in the **Encryption** tab of the export preset:

   .. image:: img/encryption_key.png

5. Add filters for the files/folders to encrypt. **By default**, include filters
   are empty and **nothing will be encrypted**.

6. Export the project. The project should run with the files encrypted now.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If you get an error like below, it means the key wasn't properly included in
your Godot build. Godot is encrypting PCK file during export, but can't read
it at runtime.

::

   ERROR: open_and_parse: Condition "String::md5(md5.digest) != String::md5(md5d)" is true. Returning: ERR_FILE_CORRUPT
      At: core/io/file_access_encrypted.cpp:103
