getting_started/introduction/first_look_at_the_editor.rst, before:

.. This page is only here to introduce the interface to the user broadly. To
   cover individual areas in greater detail, write the corresponding pages in
   the most appropriate section, and link them. E.g. the animation editor goes
   to the animation section. General pages, for instance, about the Project
   Manager, should go in the editor manual.

.. _doc_intro_to_the_editor_interface:

First look at Godot's editor
============================

This page will give you a brief overview of Godot's interface. We're going to
look at the different main screens and docks to help you situate yourself.

.. seealso:: For a comprehensive breakdown of the editor's interface and how to
             use it, see the :ref:`Editor manual <toc-learn-editor>`.

The Project Manager
-------------------

When you launch Godot, the first window you see is the Project Manager. In the
default tab **Local Projects**, you can manage existing projects, import or create new
ones, and more.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_project_manager.webp

At the top of the window, there is another tab named "Asset Library Projects". You can search
for demo projects in the open source asset library, which includes many projects
developed by the community.

.. seealso:: To learn the Project Manager's ins and outs, read
             :ref:`doc_project_manager`.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_project_templates.webp

You can also change the editor's language using the drop-down menu to the right
of the engine's version in the window's top-right corner. By default, it is in
English (EN).

.. image:: img/editor_intro_language.webp

First look at Godot's editor
----------------------------

When you open a new or an existing project, the editor's interface appears.
Let's look at its main areas.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_editor_empty.webp

By default, it features **menus**, **main screens**, and playtest buttons along
the window's top edge.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_top_menus.webp

In the center is the **viewport** with its **toolbar** at the top, where you'll
find tools to move, scale, or lock the scene's nodes.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_3d_viewport.webp

On either side of the viewport sit the **docks**. And at the bottom of the
window lies the **bottom panel**.

The toolbar changes based on the context and selected node. Here is the 2D toolbar.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_toolbar_2d.webp

Below is the 3D one.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_toolbar_3d.webp

Let's look at the docks. The **FileSystem** dock lists your project files, including
scripts, images, audio samples, and more.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_filesystem_dock.webp

The **Scene** dock lists the active scene's nodes.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_scene_dock.webp

The **Inspector** allows you to edit the properties of a selected node.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_inspector_dock.webp

The **bottom panel**, situated below the viewport, is the host for the debug
console, the animation editor, the audio mixer, and more. They can take precious
space, that's why they're folded by default.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_bottom_panels.webp

When you click on one, it expands vertically. Below, you can see the animation editor opened.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_bottom_panel_animation.webp

The four main screens
---------------------

There are four main screen buttons centered at the top of the editor:
2D, 3D, Script, and AssetLib.

You'll use the **2D screen** for all types of games. In addition to 2D games,
the 2D screen is where you'll build your interfaces.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_2d.webp

In the **3D screen**, you can work with meshes, lights, and design levels for
3D games.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_3d.webp

Notice the perspective button under the toolbar. Clicking on it opens a list of
options related to the 3D view.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_3d_viewport_perspective.webp

.. note:: Read :ref:`doc_introduction_to_3d` for more detail about the **3D
          main screen**.

The **Script screen** is a complete code editor with a debugger, rich
auto-completion, and built-in code reference.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_script.webp

Finally, the **AssetLib** is a library of free and open source add-ons, scripts,
and assets to use in your projects.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_assetlib.webp

.. seealso:: You can learn more about the asset library in
             :ref:`doc_what_is_assetlib`.

Integrated class reference
--------------------------

Godot comes with a built-in class reference.

You can search for information about a class, method, property, constant, or
signal by any one of the following methods:

* Pressing :kbd:`F1` (or :kbd:`Opt + Space` on macOS, or :kbd:`fn + F1` for laptops with a :kbd:`fn` key) anywhere in the editor.
* Clicking the "Search Help" button in the top-right of the Script main screen.
* Clicking on the Help menu and Search Help.
* Clicking while pressing the :kbd:`Ctrl` key on a class name, function name,
  or built-in variable in the script editor.


.. image:: img/editor_intro_search_help_button.webp

When you do any of these, a window pops up. Type to search for any item. You can
also use it to browse available objects and methods.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_search_help.webp

Double-click on an item to open the corresponding page in the script main screen.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_help_class_animated_sprite.webp

Commit message:

Update project manager screenshots in getting started

getting_started/introduction/first_look_at_the_editor.rst, after:

.. This page is only here to introduce the interface to the user broadly. To
   cover individual areas in greater detail, write the corresponding pages in
   the most appropriate section, and link them. E.g. the animation editor goes
   to the animation section. General pages, for instance, about the Project
   Manager, should go in the editor manual.

.. _doc_intro_to_the_editor_interface:

First look at Godot's editor
============================

This page will give you a brief overview of Godot's interface. We're going to
look at the different main screens and docks to help you situate yourself.

.. seealso:: For a comprehensive breakdown of the editor's interface and how to
             use it, see the :ref:`Editor manual <toc-learn-editor>`.

The Project Manager
-------------------

When you launch Godot, the first window you see is the Project Manager. In the
default tab **Local Projects**, you can manage existing projects, import or create new
ones, and more.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_project_manager.webp

At the top of the window, there is another tab named "Asset Library Projects". The first
time you go to this tab you'll see a "Go Online" button. For privacy reasons the Godot
project manager does not access the internet by default. To change this click
the "Go Online button", if you want to change your network mode back to "offline" you
can do so from the project manager settings.

Once your network mode is set to "online" you can search for demo projects in the open
source asset library, which includes many projects developed by the community.

.. seealso:: To learn the Project Manager's ins and outs, read
             :ref:`doc_project_manager`.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_project_templates.webp

You can also change the editor's language by going into the settings menu.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_settings.webp

From here use the language drop down menu to select your language. By default, it is in
English (EN).

.. image:: img/editor_intro_language.webp

First look at Godot's editor
----------------------------

When you open a new or an existing project, the editor's interface appears.
Let's look at its main areas.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_editor_empty.webp

By default, it features **menus**, **main screens**, and playtest buttons along
the window's top edge.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_top_menus.webp

In the center is the **viewport** with its **toolbar** at the top, where you'll
find tools to move, scale, or lock the scene's nodes.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_3d_viewport.webp

On either side of the viewport sit the **docks**. And at the bottom of the
window lies the **bottom panel**.

The toolbar changes based on the context and selected node. Here is the 2D toolbar.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_toolbar_2d.webp

Below is the 3D one.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_toolbar_3d.webp

Let's look at the docks. The **FileSystem** dock lists your project files, including
scripts, images, audio samples, and more.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_filesystem_dock.webp

The **Scene** dock lists the active scene's nodes.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_scene_dock.webp

The **Inspector** allows you to edit the properties of a selected node.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_inspector_dock.webp

The **bottom panel**, situated below the viewport, is the host for the debug
console, the animation editor, the audio mixer, and more. They can take precious
space, that's why they're folded by default.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_bottom_panels.webp

When you click on one, it expands vertically. Below, you can see the animation editor opened.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_bottom_panel_animation.webp

The four main screens
---------------------

There are four main screen buttons centered at the top of the editor:
2D, 3D, Script, and AssetLib.

You'll use the **2D screen** for all types of games. In addition to 2D games,
the 2D screen is where you'll build your interfaces.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_2d.webp

In the **3D screen**, you can work with meshes, lights, and design levels for
3D games.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_3d.webp

Notice the perspective button under the toolbar. Clicking on it opens a list of
options related to the 3D view.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_3d_viewport_perspective.webp

.. note:: Read :ref:`doc_introduction_to_3d` for more detail about the **3D
          main screen**.

The **Script screen** is a complete code editor with a debugger, rich
auto-completion, and built-in code reference.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_script.webp

Finally, the **AssetLib** is a library of free and open source add-ons, scripts,
and assets to use in your projects.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_workspace_assetlib.webp

.. seealso:: You can learn more about the asset library in
             :ref:`doc_what_is_assetlib`.

Integrated class reference
--------------------------

Godot comes with a built-in class reference.

You can search for information about a class, method, property, constant, or
signal by any one of the following methods:

* Pressing :kbd:`F1` (or :kbd:`Opt + Space` on macOS, or :kbd:`fn + F1` for laptops with a :kbd:`fn` key) anywhere in the editor.
* Clicking the "Search Help" button in the top-right of the Script main screen.
* Clicking on the Help menu and Search Help.
* Clicking while pressing the :kbd:`Ctrl` key on a class name, function name,
  or built-in variable in the script editor.


.. image:: img/editor_intro_search_help_button.webp

When you do any of these, a window pops up. Type to search for any item. You can
also use it to browse available objects and methods.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_search_help.webp

Double-click on an item to open the corresponding page in the script main screen.

.. image:: img/editor_intro_help_class_animated_sprite.webp
