engine_details/development/configuring_an_ide/visual_studio_code.rst, before:

.. _doc_configuring_an_ide_vscode:

Visual Studio Code
==================

.. note::

    This documentation is for contributions to the game engine, and not using
    Visual Studio Code as a C# or GDScript editor. To code C# or GDScript in an external editor, see
    :ref:`the C# guide to configure an external editor <doc_c_sharp_setup_external_editor>` or
    :ref:`the GDScript guide to using an external text editor <doc_external_editor>`.

`Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com>`_ is a free cross-platform code editor
by `Microsoft <https://microsoft.com>`_ (not to be confused with :ref:`doc_configuring_an_ide_vs`).

Importing the project
---------------------

- Make sure the C/C++ extension is installed. You can find instructions in
  the `official documentation <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/cpp>`_.
  Alternatively, `clangd <https://open-vsx.org/extension/llvm-vs-code-extensions/vscode-clangd>`_
  can be used instead.
- When using the clangd extension, run ``scons compiledb=yes``.
- From the Visual Studio Code's main screen open the Godot root folder with
  **File > Open Folder...**.
- Press :kbd:`Ctrl + Shift + P` to open the command prompt window and enter *Configure Task*.

.. figure:: img/vscode_configure_task.png
   :align: center

- Select the **Create tasks.json file from template** option.

.. figure:: img/vscode_create_tasksjson.png
   :align: center

- Then select **Others**.

.. figure:: img/vscode_create_tasksjson_others.png
   :align: center

- If there is no such option as **Create tasks.json file from template** available, either delete the file if it already exists in your folder or create a ``.vscode/tasks.json`` file manually. See `Tasks in Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/tasks#_custom-tasks>`_ for more details on tasks.

- Within the ``tasks.json`` file find the ``"tasks"`` array and add a new section to it:

  .. code-block:: js
    :caption: .vscode/tasks.json

    {
      "label": "build",
      "group": "build",
      "type": "shell",
      "command": "scons",
      "args": [
        // enable for debugging with breakpoints
        "dev_build=yes",
      ],
      "problemMatcher": "$msCompile"
    }

.. figure:: img/vscode_3_tasks.json.png
   :figclass: figure-w480
   :align: center

   An example of a filled out ``tasks.json``.

Arguments can be different based on your own setup and needs. See
:ref:`doc_introduction_to_the_buildsystem` for a full list of arguments.

Debugging the project
---------------------

To run and debug the project you need to create a new configuration in the ``launch.json`` file.

- Press :kbd:`Ctrl + Shift + D` to open the Run panel.
- If ``launch.json`` file is missing you will be prompted to create a new one.

.. figure:: img/vscode_1_create_launch.json.png
   :align: center

- Select **C++ (GDB/LLDB)**. There may be another platform-specific option here. If selected,
  adjust the configuration example provided accordingly.
- Within the ``launch.json`` file find the ``"configurations"`` array and add a new section to it:

.. tabs::
  .. code-tab:: js LinuxBSD

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      // Change to godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64.llvm for llvm-based builds.
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "externalConsole": false,
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }
  .. code-tab:: js LinuxBSD_gdb

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "cppdbg",
      "request": "launch",
      // Change to godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64.llvm for llvm-based builds.
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "externalConsole": false,
      "setupCommands":
      [
        {
          "description": "Enable pretty-printing for gdb",
          "text": "-enable-pretty-printing",
          "ignoreFailures": true
        },
        {
            "description": "Load custom pretty-printers for Godot types.",
            "text": "source ${workspaceRoot}/misc/utility/godot_gdb_pretty_print.py"
        }
      ],
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js Windows

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "cppvsdbg",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.windows.editor.dev.x86_64.exe",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "console": "internalConsole",
      "visualizerFile": "${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows/godot.natvis",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js macOS_x86_64

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.macos.editor.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": ["--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder"],
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js macOS_arm64

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.macos.editor.arm64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": ["--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder"],
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

.. figure:: img/vscode_2_launch.json.png
   :figclass: figure-w480
   :align: center

   An example of a filled out ``launch.json``.


.. note::

    Due to sporadic performance issues, it is recommended to use LLDB over GDB on Unix-based systems.
    Make sure that the `CodeLLDB extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vadimcn.vscode-lldb>`_
    is installed for configurations using `lldb`.

    If you encounter issues with lldb, you may consider using gdb (see the LinuxBSD_gdb configuration).

    Do note that lldb may work better with LLVM-based builds. See :ref:`doc_compiling_for_linuxbsd` for further information.

The name under ``program`` depends on your build configuration,
e.g. ``godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64`` for 64-bit LinuxBSD platform with
``target=editor`` and ``dev_build=yes``.

Configuring Intellisense
------------------------

For the C/C++ extension:

To fix include errors you may be having, you need to configure some settings in the ``c_cpp_properties.json`` file.

- First, make sure to build the project since some files need to be generated.

- Edit the C/C++ Configuration file either with the UI or with text:

.. figure:: img/vscode_edit_configurations.webp
   :align: center

- Add an include path for your platform, for example, ``${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows``.

- Add defines for the editor ``TOOLS_ENABLED``, debug builds ``DEBUG_ENABLED``, and tests ``TESTS_ENABLED``.

- Make sure the compiler path is configured correctly to the compiler you are using. See :ref:`doc_introduction_to_the_buildsystem` for further information on your platform.

- The ``c_cpp_properties.json`` file should look similar to this for Windows:

  .. code-block:: js
    :caption: .vscode/c_cpp_properties.json

    {
      "configurations": [
        {
          "name": "Win32",
          "includePath": [
            "${workspaceFolder}/**",
            "${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows"
          ],
          "defines": [
            "_DEBUG",
            "UNICODE",
            "_UNICODE",
            "TOOLS_ENABLED",
            "DEBUG_ENABLED",
            "TESTS_ENABLED"
          ],
          "windowsSdkVersion": "10.0.22621.0",
          "compilerPath": "C:/Program Files/Microsoft Visual Studio/2022/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.39.33519/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe",
          "cStandard": "c17",
          "cppStandard": "c++17",
          "intelliSenseMode": "windows-msvc-x64"
        }
      ],
      "version": 4
    }

- Alternatively, you can use the scons argument ``compiledb=yes`` and set the compile commands setting ``compileCommands`` to ``compile_commands.json``, found in the advanced section of the C/C++ Configuration UI.

  - This argument can be added to your build task in ``tasks.json`` since it will need to be run whenever files are added or moved.

If you run into any issues, ask for help in one of
`Godot's community channels <https://godotengine.org/community>`__.

.. tip::

    To get linting on class reference XML files, install the
    `vscode-xml extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-xml>`__.

Commit message:

Document enabling C++ hover documentation in Visual Studio Code

engine_details/development/configuring_an_ide/visual_studio_code.rst, after:

.. _doc_configuring_an_ide_vscode:

Visual Studio Code
==================

.. note::

    This documentation is for contributions to the game engine, and not using
    Visual Studio Code as a C# or GDScript editor. To code C# or GDScript in an external editor, see
    :ref:`the C# guide to configure an external editor <doc_c_sharp_setup_external_editor>` or
    :ref:`the GDScript guide to using an external text editor <doc_external_editor>`.

`Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com>`_ is a free cross-platform code editor
by `Microsoft <https://microsoft.com>`_ (not to be confused with :ref:`doc_configuring_an_ide_vs`).

Importing the project
---------------------

- Make sure the C/C++ extension is installed. You can find instructions in
  the `official documentation <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/cpp>`_.
  Alternatively, `clangd <https://open-vsx.org/extension/llvm-vs-code-extensions/vscode-clangd>`_
  can be used instead.
- When using the clangd extension, run ``scons compiledb=yes``.
- From the Visual Studio Code's main screen open the Godot root folder with
  **File > Open Folder...**.
- Press :kbd:`Ctrl + Shift + P` to open the command prompt window and enter *Configure Task*.

.. figure:: img/vscode_configure_task.png
   :align: center

- Select the **Create tasks.json file from template** option.

.. figure:: img/vscode_create_tasksjson.png
   :align: center

- Then select **Others**.

.. figure:: img/vscode_create_tasksjson_others.png
   :align: center

- If there is no such option as **Create tasks.json file from template** available, either delete the file if it already exists in your folder or create a ``.vscode/tasks.json`` file manually. See `Tasks in Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/tasks#_custom-tasks>`_ for more details on tasks.

- Within the ``tasks.json`` file find the ``"tasks"`` array and add a new section to it:

  .. code-block:: js
    :caption: .vscode/tasks.json

    {
      "label": "build",
      "group": "build",
      "type": "shell",
      "command": "scons",
      "args": [
        // enable for debugging with breakpoints
        "dev_build=yes",
      ],
      "problemMatcher": "$msCompile"
    }

.. figure:: img/vscode_3_tasks.json.png
   :figclass: figure-w480
   :align: center

   An example of a filled out ``tasks.json``.

Arguments can be different based on your own setup and needs. See
:ref:`doc_introduction_to_the_buildsystem` for a full list of arguments.

Debugging the project
---------------------

To run and debug the project you need to create a new configuration in the ``launch.json`` file.

- Press :kbd:`Ctrl + Shift + D` to open the Run panel.
- If ``launch.json`` file is missing you will be prompted to create a new one.

.. figure:: img/vscode_1_create_launch.json.png
   :align: center

- Select **C++ (GDB/LLDB)**. There may be another platform-specific option here. If selected,
  adjust the configuration example provided accordingly.
- Within the ``launch.json`` file find the ``"configurations"`` array and add a new section to it:

.. tabs::
  .. code-tab:: js LinuxBSD

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      // Change to godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64.llvm for llvm-based builds.
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "externalConsole": false,
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }
  .. code-tab:: js LinuxBSD_gdb

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "cppdbg",
      "request": "launch",
      // Change to godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64.llvm for llvm-based builds.
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "externalConsole": false,
      "setupCommands":
      [
        {
          "description": "Enable pretty-printing for gdb",
          "text": "-enable-pretty-printing",
          "ignoreFailures": true
        },
        {
            "description": "Load custom pretty-printers for Godot types.",
            "text": "source ${workspaceRoot}/misc/utility/godot_gdb_pretty_print.py"
        }
      ],
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js Windows

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "cppvsdbg",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.windows.editor.dev.x86_64.exe",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": [ "--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder" ],
      "stopAtEntry": false,
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "environment": [],
      "console": "internalConsole",
      "visualizerFile": "${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows/godot.natvis",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js macOS_x86_64

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.macos.editor.x86_64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": ["--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder"],
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

  .. code-tab:: js macOS_arm64

    {
      "name": "Launch Project",
      "type": "lldb",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/godot.macos.editor.arm64",
      // Change the arguments below for the project you want to test with.
      // To run the project instead of editing it, remove the "--editor" argument.
      "args": ["--editor", "--path", "path-to-your-godot-project-folder"],
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
      "preLaunchTask": "build"
    }

.. figure:: img/vscode_2_launch.json.png
   :figclass: figure-w480
   :align: center

   An example of a filled out ``launch.json``.


.. note::

    Due to sporadic performance issues, it is recommended to use LLDB over GDB on Unix-based systems.
    Make sure that the `CodeLLDB extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vadimcn.vscode-lldb>`_
    is installed for configurations using `lldb`.

    If you encounter issues with lldb, you may consider using gdb (see the LinuxBSD_gdb configuration).

    Do note that lldb may work better with LLVM-based builds. See :ref:`doc_compiling_for_linuxbsd` for further information.

The name under ``program`` depends on your build configuration,
e.g. ``godot.linuxbsd.editor.dev.x86_64`` for 64-bit LinuxBSD platform with
``target=editor`` and ``dev_build=yes``.

Configuring IntelliSense
------------------------

For the C/C++ extension:

To fix include errors you may be having, you need to configure some settings in the ``c_cpp_properties.json`` file.

- First, make sure to build the project since some files need to be generated.

- Edit the C/C++ Configuration file either with the UI or with text:

.. figure:: img/vscode_edit_configurations.webp
   :align: center

- Add an include path for your platform, for example, ``${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows``.

- Add defines for the editor ``TOOLS_ENABLED``, debug builds ``DEBUG_ENABLED``, and tests ``TESTS_ENABLED``.

- Make sure the compiler path is configured correctly to the compiler you are using. See :ref:`doc_introduction_to_the_buildsystem` for further information on your platform.

- The ``c_cpp_properties.json`` file should look similar to this for Windows:

  .. code-block:: js
    :caption: .vscode/c_cpp_properties.json

    {
      "configurations": [
        {
          "name": "Win32",
          "includePath": [
            "${workspaceFolder}/**",
            "${workspaceFolder}/platform/windows"
          ],
          "defines": [
            "_DEBUG",
            "UNICODE",
            "_UNICODE",
            "TOOLS_ENABLED",
            "DEBUG_ENABLED",
            "TESTS_ENABLED"
          ],
          "windowsSdkVersion": "10.0.22621.0",
          "compilerPath": "C:/Program Files/Microsoft Visual Studio/2022/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.39.33519/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe",
          "cStandard": "c17",
          "cppStandard": "c++17",
          "intelliSenseMode": "windows-msvc-x64"
        }
      ],
      "version": 4
    }

- Alternatively, you can use the scons argument ``compiledb=yes`` and set the compile commands setting ``compileCommands`` to ``compile_commands.json``, found in the advanced section of the C/C++ Configuration UI.

  - This argument can be added to your build task in ``tasks.json`` since it will need to be run whenever files are added or moved.

Linting class reference XML files
---------------------------------

To get linting on class reference XML files, install the
`vscode-xml extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-xml>`__.

Displaying documentation on hover
---------------------------------

By installing the
`Godot Hover Docs extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=RedMser.godot-hover-docs>`__,
you can make class reference documentation appear when hovering symbols in C++
source or header files. The information is sourced from local XML files, so it works offline.

.. note::

    This is only effective for symbols that are documented in the class reference XML,
    i.e. those that are exposed to the scripting API. Internal engine symbols will not
    show documentation on hover, unless they have a comment right above their declaration.

Troubleshooting
---------------

If you run into any issues, ask for help in one of
`Godot's community channels <https://godotengine.org/community>`__.
