.. _doc_what_is_gdextension:

What is GDExtension?
====================

**GDExtension** is a Godot-specific technology that lets the engine interact with
native `shared libraries <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)#Shared_libraries>`__
at runtime. You can use it to run native code without compiling it with the engine.

There are three primary methods with which this is achieved:

* :ref:`gdextension_interface.h <doc_gdextension_interface_json_file>`: A set of C functions that Godot and a GDExtension can use to communicate.
* :ref:`extension_api.json <doc_gdextension_api_file>`: A list of C functions that are exposed from Godot APIs (:ref:`Core Features <doc_scripting_core_features>`).
* :ref:`*.gdextension <doc_gdextension_file>`: A file format read by Godot to load a GDExtension.

Most people create GDExtensions with some existing language binding, such as :ref:`godot-cpp (for C++) <doc_godot_cpp>`,
or one of the :ref:`community-made ones <doc_what_is_gdnative_third_party_bindings>`.

Version compatibility
---------------------

GDExtensions targeting an earlier version of Godot should work in later
minor versions, but not vice-versa. For example, a GDExtension targeting Godot 4.2
should work just fine in Godot 4.3, but one targeting Godot 4.3 won't work in Godot 4.2.

For this reason, when creating GDExtensions, you may want to target the lowest version of
Godot that has the features you need, *not* the most recent version of Godot. This can
save you from needing to create multiple builds for different versions of Godot.

There is one exception to this: extensions targeting Godot 4.0 will **not** work with
Godot 4.1 and later (see :ref:`updating_your_gdextension_for_godot_4_1`).

GDExtensions are also only compatible with engine builds that use the same
level of floating-point precision the extension was compiled for. This means
that if you use an engine build with double-precision floats, the extension must
also be compiled for double-precision floats and use an :ref:`extension_api.json <>`
file generated by your custom engine build. See :ref:`doc_large_world_coordinates`
for details.

Generally speaking, if you build a custom version of Godot, you should generate an
:ref:`extension_api.json <doc_gdextension_api_file>` from it for your GDExtensions,
because it may have some differences from official Godot builds. This can be accomplished
using the Godot executable:

.. code-block:: shell

    godot --dump-extension-api
