classes/class_boneattachment3d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. meta::
	:keywords: tag

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/BoneAttachment3D.xml.

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D:

BoneAttachment3D
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

А node that dynamically copies or overrides the 3D transform of a bone in its parent :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This node selects a bone in a :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` and attaches to it. This means that the **BoneAttachment3D** node will either dynamically copy or override the 3D transform of the selected bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`bone_idx<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_idx>`           | ``-1``    |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`bone_name<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_name>`         | ``""``    |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`override_pose<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_override_pose>` | ``false`` |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`get_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_external_skeleton>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                  |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`get_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_use_external_skeleton>`\ (\ ) |const|                                          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`on_bone_pose_update<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_on_bone_pose_update>`\ (\ bone_index\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`set_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton>`\ (\ external_skeleton\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )     |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`set_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton>`\ (\ use_external_skeleton\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_idx:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **bone_idx** = ``-1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_idx**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_bone_idx**\ (\ )

The index of the attached bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_name:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **bone_name** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_name**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_bone_name**\ (\ )

The name of the attached bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_override_pose:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **override_pose** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_override_pose**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_override_pose**\ (\ )

Whether the BoneAttachment3D node will override the bone pose of the bone it is attached to. When set to ``true``, the BoneAttachment3D node can change the pose of the bone. When set to ``false``, the BoneAttachment3D will always be set to the bone's transform.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_external_skeleton**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns the :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` to the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node, if one has been set.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_use_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_use_external_skeleton**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns whether the BoneAttachment3D node is using an external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` rather than attempting to use its parent node as the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_on_bone_pose_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **on_bone_pose_update**\ (\ bone_index\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

A function that is called automatically when the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` the BoneAttachment3D node is using has a bone that has changed its pose. This function is where the BoneAttachment3D node updates its position so it is correctly bound when it is *not* set to override the bone pose.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_external_skeleton**\ (\ external_skeleton\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )

Sets the :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` to the external skeleton that the BoneAttachment3D node should use. See :ref:`set_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton>` to enable the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_use_external_skeleton**\ (\ use_external_skeleton\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )

Sets whether the BoneAttachment3D node will use an external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node rather than attempting to use its parent node as the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`. When set to ``true``, the BoneAttachment3D node will use the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node set in :ref:`set_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (655e93d)

classes/class_boneattachment3d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. meta::
	:keywords: tag

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/BoneAttachment3D.xml.

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D:

BoneAttachment3D
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

А node that dynamically copies or overrides the 3D transform of a bone in its parent :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This node selects a bone in a :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` and attaches to it. This means that the **BoneAttachment3D** node will either dynamically copy or override the 3D transform of the selected bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`bone_idx<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_idx>`           | ``-1``    |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`bone_name<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_name>`         | ``""``    |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`override_pose<class_BoneAttachment3D_property_override_pose>` | ``false`` |
   +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`get_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_external_skeleton>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                  |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`get_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_use_external_skeleton>`\ (\ ) |const|                                          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`on_bone_pose_update<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_on_bone_pose_update>`\ (\ bone_index\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`set_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton>`\ (\ external_skeleton\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )     |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                          | :ref:`set_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton>`\ (\ use_external_skeleton\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_idx:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **bone_idx** = ``-1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_idx**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_bone_idx**\ (\ )

The index of the attached bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_bone_name:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **bone_name** = ``""``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_name**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_bone_name**\ (\ )

The name of the attached bone.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_property_override_pose:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **override_pose** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_override_pose**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_override_pose**\ (\ )

Whether the BoneAttachment3D node will override the bone pose of the bone it is attached to. When set to ``true``, the BoneAttachment3D node can change the pose of the bone. When set to ``false``, the BoneAttachment3D will always be set to the bone's transform.

\ **Note:** This override performs interruptively in the skeleton update process using signals due to the old design. It may cause unintended behavior when used at the same time with :ref:`SkeletonModifier3D<class_SkeletonModifier3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_external_skeleton**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns the :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` to the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node, if one has been set.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_get_use_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_use_external_skeleton**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns whether the BoneAttachment3D node is using an external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` rather than attempting to use its parent node as the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_on_bone_pose_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **on_bone_pose_update**\ (\ bone_index\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

A function that is called automatically when the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` the BoneAttachment3D node is using has a bone that has changed its pose. This function is where the BoneAttachment3D node updates its position so it is correctly bound when it is *not* set to override the bone pose.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_external_skeleton**\ (\ external_skeleton\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )

Sets the :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` to the external skeleton that the BoneAttachment3D node should use. See :ref:`set_use_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton>` to enable the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_use_external_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_use_external_skeleton**\ (\ use_external_skeleton\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )

Sets whether the BoneAttachment3D node will use an external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node rather than attempting to use its parent node as the :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>`. When set to ``true``, the BoneAttachment3D node will use the external :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node set in :ref:`set_external_skeleton<class_BoneAttachment3D_method_set_external_skeleton>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
