classes/class_audiostreamoggvorbis.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/modules/vorbis/doc_classes/AudioStreamOggVorbis.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis:

AudioStreamOggVorbis
====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A class representing an Ogg Vorbis audio stream.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The AudioStreamOggVorbis class is a specialized :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` for handling Ogg Vorbis file formats. It offers functionality for loading and playing back Ogg Vorbis files, as well as managing looping and other playback properties. This class is part of the audio stream system, which also supports WAV files through the :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` class.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Runtime file loading and saving <../tutorials/io/runtime_file_loading_and_saving>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`bar_beats<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats>`             | ``4``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`beat_count<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count>`           | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`bpm<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm>`                         | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`loop<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop>`                       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`loop_offset<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>`         | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` | :ref:`packet_sequence<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence>` |           |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` | :ref:`load_from_buffer<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer>`\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` | :ref:`load_from_file<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |static|                              |
   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **bar_beats** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bar_beats**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_bar_beats**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **beat_count** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_beat_count**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_beat_count**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bpm** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bpm**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bpm**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **loop** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_loop**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the audio will play again from the specified :ref:`loop_offset<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>` once it is done playing. Useful for ambient sounds and background music.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **loop_offset** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_loop_offset**\ (\ )

Time in seconds at which the stream starts after being looped.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` **packet_sequence** :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_packet_sequence**\ (\ value\: :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>`\ )
- :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` **get_packet_sequence**\ (\ )

Contains the raw Ogg data for this stream.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` **load_from_buffer**\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamOggVorbis** instance from the given buffer. The buffer must contain Ogg Vorbis data.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` **load_from_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamOggVorbis** instance from the given file path. The file must be in Ogg Vorbis format.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (42c7f14)

classes/class_audiostreamoggvorbis.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/modules/vorbis/doc_classes/AudioStreamOggVorbis.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis:

AudioStreamOggVorbis
====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A class representing an Ogg Vorbis audio stream.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The AudioStreamOggVorbis class is a specialized :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` for handling Ogg Vorbis file formats. It offers functionality for loading and playing back Ogg Vorbis files, as well as managing looping and other playback properties. This class is part of the audio stream system, which also supports WAV files through the :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` class.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Runtime file loading and saving <../tutorials/io/runtime_file_loading_and_saving>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`bar_beats<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats>`             | ``4``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`beat_count<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count>`           | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`bpm<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm>`                         | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`loop<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop>`                       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`loop_offset<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>`         | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` | :ref:`packet_sequence<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence>` |           |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`               | :ref:`tags<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_tags>`                       | ``{}``    |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` | :ref:`load_from_buffer<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer>`\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` | :ref:`load_from_file<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |static|                              |
   +---------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **bar_beats** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bar_beats>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bar_beats**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_bar_beats**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **beat_count** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_beat_count>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_beat_count**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_beat_count**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bpm** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_bpm>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bpm**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bpm**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **loop** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_loop**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the audio will play again from the specified :ref:`loop_offset<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>` once it is done playing. Useful for ambient sounds and background music.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **loop_offset** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_loop_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_loop_offset**\ (\ )

Time in seconds at which the stream starts after being looped.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` **packet_sequence** :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_packet_sequence>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_packet_sequence**\ (\ value\: :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>`\ )
- :ref:`OggPacketSequence<class_OggPacketSequence>` **get_packet_sequence**\ (\ )

Contains the raw Ogg data for this stream.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_tags:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **tags** = ``{}`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_property_tags>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_tags**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\ )
- :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **get_tags**\ (\ )

Contains user-defined tags if found in the Ogg Vorbis data.

Commonly used tags include ``title``, ``artist``, ``album``, ``tracknumber``, and ``date`` (``date`` does not have a standard date format).

\ **Note:** No tag is *guaranteed* to be present in every file, so make sure to account for the keys not always existing.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` **load_from_buffer**\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_buffer>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamOggVorbis** instance from the given buffer. The buffer must contain Ogg Vorbis data.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` **load_from_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis_method_load_from_file>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamOggVorbis** instance from the given file path. The file must be in Ogg Vorbis format.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
