classes/class_gltfspecgloss.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/modules/gltf/doc_classes/GLTFSpecGloss.xml.

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss:

GLTFSpecGloss
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`Reference<class_Reference>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**Note:** This class is only compiled in editor builds. Run-time glTF loading and saving is *not* available in exported projects. References to **GLTFSpecGloss** within a script will cause an error in an exported project.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>` | :ref:`diffuse_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_factor>`   | ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )`` |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Image<class_Image>` | :ref:`diffuse_img<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_img>`         |                         |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`gloss_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_gloss_factor>`       | ``1.0``                 |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Image<class_Image>` | :ref:`spec_gloss_img<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_spec_gloss_img>`   |                         |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>` | :ref:`specular_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_specular_factor>` | ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )`` |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **diffuse_factor** = ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_diffuse_factor** **(** :ref:`Color<class_Color>` value **)**
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_diffuse_factor** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_img:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Image<class_Image>` **diffuse_img**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_diffuse_img** **(** :ref:`Image<class_Image>` value **)**
- :ref:`Image<class_Image>` **get_diffuse_img** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_gloss_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **gloss_factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_gloss_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_gloss_factor** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_spec_gloss_img:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Image<class_Image>` **spec_gloss_img**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_spec_gloss_img** **(** :ref:`Image<class_Image>` value **)**
- :ref:`Image<class_Image>` **get_spec_gloss_img** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_specular_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **specular_factor** = ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_specular_factor** **(** :ref:`Color<class_Color>` value **)**
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_specular_factor** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current 3.x branch (de2f0f1)

classes/class_gltfspecgloss.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/modules/gltf/doc_classes/GLTFSpecGloss.xml.

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss:

GLTFSpecGloss
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`Reference<class_Reference>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**Note:** This class is only compiled in editor builds. Run-time glTF loading and saving is *not* available in exported projects. References to **GLTFSpecGloss** within a script will cause an error in an exported project.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `KHR_materials_pbrSpecularGlossiness GLTF extension spec <https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF/blob/main/extensions/2.0/Archived/KHR_materials_pbrSpecularGlossiness>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>` | :ref:`diffuse_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_factor>`   | ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )`` |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Image<class_Image>` | :ref:`diffuse_img<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_img>`         |                         |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`gloss_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_gloss_factor>`       | ``1.0``                 |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Image<class_Image>` | :ref:`spec_gloss_img<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_spec_gloss_img>`   |                         |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>` | :ref:`specular_factor<class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_specular_factor>` | ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )`` |
   +---------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **diffuse_factor** = ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_diffuse_factor** **(** :ref:`Color<class_Color>` value **)**
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_diffuse_factor** **(** **)**

The reflected diffuse factor of the material.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_diffuse_img:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Image<class_Image>` **diffuse_img**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_diffuse_img** **(** :ref:`Image<class_Image>` value **)**
- :ref:`Image<class_Image>` **get_diffuse_img** **(** **)**

The diffuse texture.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_gloss_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **gloss_factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_gloss_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_gloss_factor** **(** **)**

The glossiness or smoothness of the material.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_spec_gloss_img:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Image<class_Image>` **spec_gloss_img**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_spec_gloss_img** **(** :ref:`Image<class_Image>` value **)**
- :ref:`Image<class_Image>` **get_spec_gloss_img** **(** **)**

The specular-glossiness texture.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_GLTFSpecGloss_property_specular_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **specular_factor** = ``Color( 1, 1, 1, 1 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_specular_factor** **(** :ref:`Color<class_Color>` value **)**
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_specular_factor** **(** **)**

The specular RGB color of the material. The alpha channel is unused.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
