classes/class_material.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/classes/Material.xml.

.. _class_Material:

Material
========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`BaseMaterial3D<class_BaseMaterial3D>`, :ref:`CanvasItemMaterial<class_CanvasItemMaterial>`, :ref:`FogMaterial<class_FogMaterial>`, :ref:`PanoramaSkyMaterial<class_PanoramaSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`ParticleProcessMaterial<class_ParticleProcessMaterial>`, :ref:`PhysicalSkyMaterial<class_PhysicalSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`PlaceholderMaterial<class_PlaceholderMaterial>`, :ref:`ProceduralSkyMaterial<class_ProceduralSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`

Abstract base :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` for coloring and shading geometry.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Material is a base :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` used for coloring and shading geometry. All materials inherit from it and almost all :ref:`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` derived nodes carry a Material. A few flags and parameters are shared between all material types and are configured here.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Material Testers Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/123>`__

- `Third Person Shooter Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/678>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Material<class_Material>` | :ref:`next_pass<class_Material_property_next_pass>`             |
   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`           | :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` |
   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`_can_do_next_pass<class_Material_method__can_do_next_pass>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|               |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`_can_use_render_priority<class_Material_method__can_use_render_priority>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const| |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>`   | :ref:`_get_shader_mode<class_Material_method__get_shader_mode>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                 |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`           | :ref:`_get_shader_rid<class_Material_method__get_shader_rid>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                   |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` | :ref:`create_placeholder<class_Material_method_create_placeholder>` **(** **)** |const|                       |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                            | :ref:`inspect_native_shader_code<class_Material_method_inspect_native_shader_code>` **(** **)**               |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Constants
---------

.. _class_Material_constant_RENDER_PRIORITY_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**RENDER_PRIORITY_MAX** = ``127``

Maximum value for the :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` parameter.

.. _class_Material_constant_RENDER_PRIORITY_MIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**RENDER_PRIORITY_MIN** = ``-128``

Minimum value for the :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` parameter.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Material_property_next_pass:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Material<class_Material>` **next_pass**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_next_pass** **(** :ref:`Material<class_Material>` value **)**
- :ref:`Material<class_Material>` **get_next_pass** **(** **)**

Sets the **Material** to be used for the next pass. This renders the object again using a different material.

\ **Note:** This only applies to :ref:`StandardMaterial3D<class_StandardMaterial3D>`\ s and :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`\ s with type "Spatial".

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_property_render_priority:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **render_priority**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_render_priority** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_render_priority** **(** **)**

Sets the render priority for transparent objects in 3D scenes. Higher priority objects will be sorted in front of lower priority objects.

\ **Note:** This only applies to :ref:`StandardMaterial3D<class_StandardMaterial3D>`\ s and :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`\ s with type "Spatial".

\ **Note:** This only applies to sorting of transparent objects. This will not impact how transparent objects are sorted relative to opaque objects. This is because opaque objects are not sorted, while transparent objects are sorted from back to front (subject to priority).

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Material_method__can_do_next_pass:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_can_do_next_pass** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__can_use_render_priority:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_can_use_render_priority** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__get_shader_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **_get_shader_mode** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__get_shader_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **_get_shader_rid** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method_create_placeholder:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **create_placeholder** **(** **)** |const|

Creates a placeholder version of this resource (:ref:`PlaceholderMaterial<class_PlaceholderMaterial>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method_inspect_native_shader_code:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **inspect_native_shader_code** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current 4.1 branch (1ef40f4)

classes/class_material.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/classes/Material.xml.

.. _class_Material:

Material
========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`BaseMaterial3D<class_BaseMaterial3D>`, :ref:`CanvasItemMaterial<class_CanvasItemMaterial>`, :ref:`FogMaterial<class_FogMaterial>`, :ref:`PanoramaSkyMaterial<class_PanoramaSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`ParticleProcessMaterial<class_ParticleProcessMaterial>`, :ref:`PhysicalSkyMaterial<class_PhysicalSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`PlaceholderMaterial<class_PlaceholderMaterial>`, :ref:`ProceduralSkyMaterial<class_ProceduralSkyMaterial>`, :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`

Virtual base class for applying visual properties to an object, such as color and roughness.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**Material** is a base resource used for coloring and shading geometry. All materials inherit from it and almost all :ref:`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` derived nodes carry a **Material**. A few flags and parameters are shared between all material types and are configured here.

Importantly, you can inherit from **Material** to create your own custom material type in script or in GDExtension.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Material Testers Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/123>`__

- `Third Person Shooter Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/678>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Material<class_Material>` | :ref:`next_pass<class_Material_property_next_pass>`             |
   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`           | :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` |
   +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`_can_do_next_pass<class_Material_method__can_do_next_pass>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|               |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`_can_use_render_priority<class_Material_method__can_use_render_priority>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const| |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>`   | :ref:`_get_shader_mode<class_Material_method__get_shader_mode>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                 |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`           | :ref:`_get_shader_rid<class_Material_method__get_shader_rid>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                   |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` | :ref:`create_placeholder<class_Material_method_create_placeholder>` **(** **)** |const|                       |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                            | :ref:`inspect_native_shader_code<class_Material_method_inspect_native_shader_code>` **(** **)**               |
   +---------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Constants
---------

.. _class_Material_constant_RENDER_PRIORITY_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**RENDER_PRIORITY_MAX** = ``127``

Maximum value for the :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` parameter.

.. _class_Material_constant_RENDER_PRIORITY_MIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**RENDER_PRIORITY_MIN** = ``-128``

Minimum value for the :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` parameter.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Material_property_next_pass:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Material<class_Material>` **next_pass**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_next_pass** **(** :ref:`Material<class_Material>` value **)**
- :ref:`Material<class_Material>` **get_next_pass** **(** **)**

Sets the **Material** to be used for the next pass. This renders the object again using a different material.

\ **Note:** :ref:`next_pass<class_Material_property_next_pass>` materials are not necessarily drawn immediately after the source **Material**. Draw order is determined by material properties, :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>`, and distance to camera.

\ **Note:** This only applies to :ref:`StandardMaterial3D<class_StandardMaterial3D>`\ s and :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`\ s with type "Spatial".

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_property_render_priority:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **render_priority**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_render_priority** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_render_priority** **(** **)**

Sets the render priority for objects in 3D scenes. Higher priority objects will be sorted in front of lower priority objects. In other words, all objects with :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` ``1`` will render before all objects with :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` ``0``).

\ **Note:** This only applies to :ref:`StandardMaterial3D<class_StandardMaterial3D>`\ s and :ref:`ShaderMaterial<class_ShaderMaterial>`\ s with type "Spatial".

\ **Note:** This will not impact how transparent objects are sorted relative to opaque objects or how dynamic meshes will be sorted relative to other opaque meshes. This is because all transparent objects are drawn after all opaque objects and all dynamic opaque meshes are drawn before other opaque meshes.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Material_method__can_do_next_pass:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_can_do_next_pass** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Only exposed for the purpose of overriding. You cannot call this function directly. Used internally to determine if :ref:`next_pass<class_Material_property_next_pass>` should be shown in the editor or not.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__can_use_render_priority:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_can_use_render_priority** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Only exposed for the purpose of overriding. You cannot call this function directly. Used internally to determine if :ref:`render_priority<class_Material_property_render_priority>` should be shown in the editor or not.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__get_shader_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Mode<enum_Shader_Mode>` **_get_shader_mode** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Only exposed for the purpose of overriding. You cannot call this function directly. Used internally by various editor tools.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method__get_shader_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **_get_shader_rid** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Only exposed for the purpose of overriding. You cannot call this function directly. Used internally by various editor tools. Used to access the RID of the **Material**'s :ref:`Shader<class_Shader>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method_create_placeholder:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **create_placeholder** **(** **)** |const|

Creates a placeholder version of this resource (:ref:`PlaceholderMaterial<class_PlaceholderMaterial>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Material_method_inspect_native_shader_code:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **inspect_native_shader_code** **(** **)**

Only available when running in the editor. Opens a popup that visualizes the generated shader code, including all variants and internal shader code.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
