classes/class_inputeventmousebutton.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputEventMouseButton.xml.

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton:

InputEventMouseButton
=====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`InputEventMouse<class_InputEventMouse>` **<** :ref:`InputEventWithModifiers<class_InputEventWithModifiers>` **<** :ref:`InputEventFromWindow<class_InputEventFromWindow>` **<** :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Represents a mouse button being pressed or released.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Stores information about mouse click events. See :ref:`Node._input<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using InputEvent <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent>`

- :doc:`Mouse and input coordinates <../tutorials/inputs/mouse_and_input_coordinates>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` | :ref:`button_index<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_button_index>` | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`canceled<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_canceled>`         | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`double_click<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_double_click>` | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`factor<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_factor>`             | ``1.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`pressed<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_pressed>`           | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_button_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` **button_index** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_button_index** **(** :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` value **)**
- :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` **get_button_index** **(** **)**

The mouse button identifier, one of the :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` button or button wheel constants.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_canceled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **canceled** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_canceled** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_canceled** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button event has been canceled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_double_click:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **double_click** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_double_click** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_double_click** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button's state is a double-click.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_factor** **(** **)**

The amount (or delta) of the event. When used for high-precision scroll events, this indicates the scroll amount (vertical or horizontal). This is only supported on some platforms; the reported sensitivity varies depending on the platform. May be ``0`` if not supported.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **pressed** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_pressed** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_pressed** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button's state is pressed. If ``false``, the mouse button's state is released.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (8ff8216)

classes/class_inputeventmousebutton.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. meta::
	:keywords: click, press

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputEventMouseButton.xml.

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton:

InputEventMouseButton
=====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`InputEventMouse<class_InputEventMouse>` **<** :ref:`InputEventWithModifiers<class_InputEventWithModifiers>` **<** :ref:`InputEventFromWindow<class_InputEventFromWindow>` **<** :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Represents a mouse button being pressed or released.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Stores information about mouse click events. See :ref:`Node._input<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

\ **Note:** On Wear OS devices, rotary input is mapped to :ref:`@GlobalScope.MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_UP<class_@GlobalScope_constant_MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_UP>` and :ref:`@GlobalScope.MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_DOWN<class_@GlobalScope_constant_MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_DOWN>`. This can be changed to :ref:`@GlobalScope.MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_LEFT<class_@GlobalScope_constant_MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_LEFT>` and :ref:`@GlobalScope.MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_RIGHT<class_@GlobalScope_constant_MOUSE_BUTTON_WHEEL_RIGHT>` with the :ref:`ProjectSettings.input_devices/pointing/android/rotary_input_scroll_axis<class_ProjectSettings_property_input_devices/pointing/android/rotary_input_scroll_axis>` setting.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using InputEvent <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent>`

- :doc:`Mouse and input coordinates <../tutorials/inputs/mouse_and_input_coordinates>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` | :ref:`button_index<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_button_index>` | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`canceled<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_canceled>`         | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`double_click<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_double_click>` | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`factor<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_factor>`             | ``1.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`pressed<class_InputEventMouseButton_property_pressed>`           | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_button_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` **button_index** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_button_index** **(** :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` value **)**
- :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` **get_button_index** **(** **)**

The mouse button identifier, one of the :ref:`MouseButton<enum_@GlobalScope_MouseButton>` button or button wheel constants.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_canceled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **canceled** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_canceled** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_canceled** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button event has been canceled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_double_click:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **double_click** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_double_click** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_double_click** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button's state is a double-click.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_factor** **(** **)**

The amount (or delta) of the event. When used for high-precision scroll events, this indicates the scroll amount (vertical or horizontal). This is only supported on some platforms; the reported sensitivity varies depending on the platform. May be ``0`` if not supported.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEventMouseButton_property_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **pressed** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_pressed** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_pressed** **(** **)**

If ``true``, the mouse button's state is pressed. If ``false``, the mouse button's state is released.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
