classes/class_editorexportplatformlinuxbsd.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/platform/linuxbsd/doc_classes/EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD.xml.

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD:

EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD
============================

**Inherits:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatformPC<class_EditorExportPlatformPC>` **<** :ref:`EditorExportPlatform<class_EditorExportPlatform>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Exporter for Linux/BSD.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Exporting for Linux <../tutorials/export/exporting_for_linux>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`binary_format/architecture<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture>`             |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`binary_format/embed_pck<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck>`                   |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`custom_template/debug<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug>`                       |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`custom_template/release<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release>`                   |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`debug/export_console_wrapper<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper>`         |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/enabled<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled>`               |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/host<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host>`                     |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/port<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port>`                     |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/run_script<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script>`         |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`texture_format/etc2_astc<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc>`                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`texture_format/s3tc_bptc<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc>`                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **binary_format/architecture** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture>`

Application executable architecture.

Supported architectures: ``x86_32``, ``x86_64``, ``arm64``, ``arm32``, ``rv64``, ``ppc64``, ``ppc32``, and ``loongarch64``.

Official export templates include ``x86_32``, ``x86_64``, ``arm32``, and ``arm64`` binaries only.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **binary_format/embed_pck** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck>`

If ``true``, project resources are embedded into the executable.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **custom_template/debug** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug>`

Path to the custom export template. If left empty, default template is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **custom_template/release** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release>`

Path to the custom export template. If left empty, default template is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **debug/export_console_wrapper** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper>`

If ``true``, a console wrapper is exported alongside the main executable, which allows running the project with enabled console output.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script>`

Script code to execute on the remote host when app is finished.

The following variables can be used in the script:

- ``{temp_dir}`` - Path of temporary folder on the remote, used to upload app and scripts to.

- ``{archive_name}`` - Name of the ZIP containing uploaded application.

- ``{exe_name}`` - Name of application executable.

- ``{cmd_args}`` - Array of the command line argument for the application.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **ssh_remote_deploy/enabled** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled>`

Enables remote deploy using SSH/SCP.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp>`

Array of the additional command line arguments passed to the SCP.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh>`

Array of the additional command line arguments passed to the SSH.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/host** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host>`

Remote host SSH user name and address, in ``user@address`` format.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/port** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port>`

Remote host SSH port number.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/run_script** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script>`

Script code to execute on the remote host when running the app.

The following variables can be used in the script:

- ``{temp_dir}`` - Path of temporary folder on the remote, used to upload app and scripts to.

- ``{archive_name}`` - Name of the ZIP containing uploaded application.

- ``{exe_name}`` - Name of application executable.

- ``{cmd_args}`` - Array of the command line argument for the application.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **texture_format/etc2_astc** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc>`

If ``true``, project textures are exported in the ETC2/ASTC format.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **texture_format/s3tc_bptc** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc>`

If ``true``, project textures are exported in the S3TC/BPTC format.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (eb72ce2)

classes/class_editorexportplatformlinuxbsd.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/platform/linuxbsd/doc_classes/EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD.xml.

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD:

EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD
============================

**Inherits:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatformPC<class_EditorExportPlatformPC>` **<** :ref:`EditorExportPlatform<class_EditorExportPlatform>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Exporter for Linux/BSD.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Exporting for Linux <../tutorials/export/exporting_for_linux>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`binary_format/architecture<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture>`             |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`binary_format/embed_pck<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck>`                   |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`custom_template/debug<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug>`                       |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`custom_template/release<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release>`                   |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`debug/export_console_wrapper<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper>`         |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`shader_baker/enabled<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_shader_baker/enabled>`                         |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/enabled<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled>`               |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh>` |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/host<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host>`                     |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/port<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port>`                     |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`ssh_remote_deploy/run_script<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script>`         |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`texture_format/etc2_astc<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc>`                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`texture_format/s3tc_bptc<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc>`                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **binary_format/architecture** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/architecture>`

Application executable architecture.

Supported architectures: ``x86_32``, ``x86_64``, ``arm64``, ``arm32``, ``rv64``, ``ppc64``, and ``loongarch64``.

Official export templates include ``x86_32``, ``x86_64``, ``arm32``, and ``arm64`` binaries only.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **binary_format/embed_pck** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_binary_format/embed_pck>`

If ``true``, project resources are embedded into the executable.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **custom_template/debug** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/debug>`

Path to the custom export template. If left empty, default template is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **custom_template/release** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_custom_template/release>`

Path to the custom export template. If left empty, default template is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **debug/export_console_wrapper** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_debug/export_console_wrapper>`

If ``true``, a console wrapper is exported alongside the main executable, which allows running the project with enabled console output.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_shader_baker/enabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **shader_baker/enabled** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_shader_baker/enabled>`

If ``true``, shaders will be compiled and embedded in the application. This option is only supported when using the Forward+ or Mobile renderers.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/cleanup_script>`

Script code to execute on the remote host when app is finished.

The following variables can be used in the script:

- ``{temp_dir}`` - Path of temporary folder on the remote, used to upload app and scripts to.

- ``{archive_name}`` - Name of the ZIP containing uploaded application.

- ``{exe_name}`` - Name of application executable.

- ``{cmd_args}`` - Array of the command line argument for the application.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **ssh_remote_deploy/enabled** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/enabled>`

Enables remote deploy using SSH/SCP.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_scp>`

Array of the additional command line arguments passed to the SCP.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/extra_args_ssh>`

Array of the additional command line arguments passed to the SSH.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/host** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/host>`

Remote host SSH user name and address, in ``user@address`` format.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/port** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/port>`

Remote host SSH port number.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **ssh_remote_deploy/run_script** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_ssh_remote_deploy/run_script>`

Script code to execute on the remote host when running the app.

The following variables can be used in the script:

- ``{temp_dir}`` - Path of temporary folder on the remote, used to upload app and scripts to.

- ``{archive_name}`` - Name of the ZIP containing uploaded application.

- ``{exe_name}`` - Name of application executable.

- ``{cmd_args}`` - Array of the command line argument for the application.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **texture_format/etc2_astc** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/etc2_astc>`

If ``true``, project textures are exported in the ETC2/ASTC format.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **texture_format/s3tc_bptc** :ref:`🔗<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD_property_texture_format/s3tc_bptc>`

If ``true``, project textures are exported in the S3TC/BPTC format.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
