classes/class_randomnumbergenerator.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/RandomNumberGenerator.xml.

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator:

RandomNumberGenerator
=====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Provides methods for generating pseudo-random numbers.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

RandomNumberGenerator is a class for generating pseudo-random numbers. It currently uses `PCG32 <https://www.pcg-random.org/>`__.

\ **Note:** The underlying algorithm is an implementation detail and should not be depended upon.

To generate a random float number (within a given range) based on a time-dependent seed:

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    func _ready():
        var my_random_number = rng.randf_range(-10.0, 10.0)

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Random number generation <../tutorials/math/random_number_generation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`seed<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed>`   | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>` | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`rand_weighted<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_rand_weighted>`\ (\ weights\: :ref:`PackedFloat32Array<class_PackedFloat32Array>`\ )         |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randf<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf>`\ (\ )                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randf_range<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf_range>`\ (\ from\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )          |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randfn<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randfn>`\ (\ mean\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0, deviation\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0\ ) |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`randi<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi>`\ (\ )                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`randi_range<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi_range>`\ (\ from\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, to\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                  |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`\ (\ )                                                                                |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **seed** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_seed**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_seed**\ (\ )

Initializes the random number generator state based on the given seed value. A given seed will give a reproducible sequence of pseudo-random numbers.

\ **Note:** The RNG does not have an avalanche effect, and can output similar random streams given similar seeds. Consider using a hash function to improve your seed quality if they're sourced externally.

\ **Note:** Setting this property produces a side effect of changing the internal :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>`, so make sure to initialize the seed *before* modifying the :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>`:

\ **Note:** The default value of this property is pseudo-random, and changes when calling :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`. The ``0`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default seed.

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    rng.seed = hash("Godot")
    rng.state = 100 # Restore to some previously saved state.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **state** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_state**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_state**\ (\ )

The current state of the random number generator. Save and restore this property to restore the generator to a previous state:

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    print(rng.randf())
    var saved_state = rng.state # Store current state.
    print(rng.randf()) # Advance internal state.
    rng.state = saved_state # Restore the state.
    print(rng.randf()) # Prints the same value as in previous.

\ **Note:** Do not set state to arbitrary values, since the random number generator requires the state to have certain qualities to behave properly. It should only be set to values that came from the state property itself. To initialize the random number generator with arbitrary input, use :ref:`seed<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed>` instead.

\ **Note:** The default value of this property is pseudo-random, and changes when calling :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`. The ``0`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default seed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_rand_weighted:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **rand_weighted**\ (\ weights\: :ref:`PackedFloat32Array<class_PackedFloat32Array>`\ )

Returns a random index with non-uniform weights. Prints an error and returns ``-1`` if the array is empty.


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var rnd = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    
    var my_array = ["one", "two", "three, "four"]
    var weights = PackedFloat32Array([0.5, 1, 1, 2])
    
    # Prints one of the four elements in `my_array`.
    # It is more likely to print "four", and less likely to print "two".
    print(my_array[rng.rand_weighted(weights)])



.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randf**\ (\ )

Returns a pseudo-random float between ``0.0`` and ``1.0`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randf_range**\ (\ from\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )

Returns a pseudo-random float between ``from`` and ``to`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randfn:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randfn**\ (\ mean\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0, deviation\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0\ )

Returns a `normally-distributed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution>`__ pseudo-random number, using Box-Muller transform with the specified ``mean`` and a standard ``deviation``. This is also called Gaussian distribution.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **randi**\ (\ )

Returns a pseudo-random 32-bit unsigned integer between ``0`` and ``4294967295`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **randi_range**\ (\ from\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, to\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

Returns a pseudo-random 32-bit signed integer between ``from`` and ``to`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **randomize**\ (\ )

Sets up a time-based seed for this **RandomNumberGenerator** instance. Unlike the :ref:`@GlobalScope<class_@GlobalScope>` random number generation functions, different **RandomNumberGenerator** instances can use different seeds.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (dad6c77)

classes/class_randomnumbergenerator.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/RandomNumberGenerator.xml.

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator:

RandomNumberGenerator
=====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Provides methods for generating pseudo-random numbers.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

RandomNumberGenerator is a class for generating pseudo-random numbers. It currently uses `PCG32 <https://www.pcg-random.org/>`__.

\ **Note:** The underlying algorithm is an implementation detail and should not be depended upon.

To generate a random float number (within a given range) based on a time-dependent seed:

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    func _ready():
        var my_random_number = rng.randf_range(-10.0, 10.0)

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Random number generation <../tutorials/math/random_number_generation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`seed<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed>`   | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>` | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`rand_weighted<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_rand_weighted>`\ (\ weights\: :ref:`PackedFloat32Array<class_PackedFloat32Array>`\ )         |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randf<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf>`\ (\ )                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randf_range<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf_range>`\ (\ from\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )          |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`randfn<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randfn>`\ (\ mean\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0, deviation\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0\ ) |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`randi<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi>`\ (\ )                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`randi_range<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi_range>`\ (\ from\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, to\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                  |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`\ (\ )                                                                                |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **seed** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_seed**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_seed**\ (\ )

Initializes the random number generator state based on the given seed value. A given seed will give a reproducible sequence of pseudo-random numbers.

\ **Note:** The RNG does not have an avalanche effect, and can output similar random streams given similar seeds. Consider using a hash function to improve your seed quality if they're sourced externally.

\ **Note:** Setting this property produces a side effect of changing the internal :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>`, so make sure to initialize the seed *before* modifying the :ref:`state<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state>`:

\ **Note:** The default value of this property is pseudo-random, and changes when calling :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`. The ``0`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default seed.

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    rng.seed = hash("Godot")
    rng.state = 100 # Restore to some previously saved state.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_state:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **state** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_state**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_state**\ (\ )

The current state of the random number generator. Save and restore this property to restore the generator to a previous state:

::

    var rng = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    print(rng.randf())
    var saved_state = rng.state # Store current state.
    print(rng.randf()) # Advance internal state.
    rng.state = saved_state # Restore the state.
    print(rng.randf()) # Prints the same value as in previous.

\ **Note:** Do not set state to arbitrary values, since the random number generator requires the state to have certain qualities to behave properly. It should only be set to values that came from the state property itself. To initialize the random number generator with arbitrary input, use :ref:`seed<class_RandomNumberGenerator_property_seed>` instead.

\ **Note:** The default value of this property is pseudo-random, and changes when calling :ref:`randomize<class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize>`. The ``0`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default seed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_rand_weighted:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **rand_weighted**\ (\ weights\: :ref:`PackedFloat32Array<class_PackedFloat32Array>`\ )

Returns a random index with non-uniform weights. Prints an error and returns ``-1`` if the array is empty.


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var rnd = RandomNumberGenerator.new()
    
    var my_array = ["one", "two", "three, "four"]
    var weights = PackedFloat32Array([0.5, 1, 1, 2])
    
    # Prints one of the four elements in `my_array`.
    # It is more likely to print "four", and less likely to print "two".
    print(my_array[rng.rand_weighted(weights)])



.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randf**\ (\ )

Returns a pseudo-random float between ``0.0`` and ``1.0`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randf_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randf_range**\ (\ from\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )

Returns a pseudo-random float between ``from`` and ``to`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randfn:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **randfn**\ (\ mean\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0, deviation\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0\ )

Returns a `normally-distributed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution>`__, pseudo-random floating-point number from the specified ``mean`` and a standard ``deviation``. This is also known as a Gaussian distribution.

\ **Note:** This method uses the `Box-Muller transform <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box%E2%80%93Muller_transform>`__ algorithm.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **randi**\ (\ )

Returns a pseudo-random 32-bit unsigned integer between ``0`` and ``4294967295`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randi_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **randi_range**\ (\ from\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, to\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

Returns a pseudo-random 32-bit signed integer between ``from`` and ``to`` (inclusive).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_RandomNumberGenerator_method_randomize:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **randomize**\ (\ )

Sets up a time-based seed for this **RandomNumberGenerator** instance. Unlike the :ref:`@GlobalScope<class_@GlobalScope>` random number generation functions, different **RandomNumberGenerator** instances can use different seeds.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
