classes/class_inputeventmagnifygesture.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/doc/classes/InputEventMagnifyGesture.xml.

.. _class_InputEventMagnifyGesture:

InputEventMagnifyGesture
========================

**Inherits:** :ref:`InputEventGesture<class_InputEventGesture>` **<** :ref:`InputEventWithModifiers<class_InputEventWithModifiers>` **<** :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`Reference<class_Reference>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this class. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`factor<class_InputEventMagnifyGesture_property_factor>` | ``1.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEventMagnifyGesture_property_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_factor** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current 3.x branch (de2f0f1)

classes/class_inputeventmagnifygesture.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/doc/classes/InputEventMagnifyGesture.xml.

.. _class_InputEventMagnifyGesture:

InputEventMagnifyGesture
========================

**Inherits:** :ref:`InputEventGesture<class_InputEventGesture>` **<** :ref:`InputEventWithModifiers<class_InputEventWithModifiers>` **<** :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`Reference<class_Reference>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**Note:** On Android, this requires the :ref:`ProjectSettings.input_devices/pointing/android/enable_pan_and_scale_gestures<class_ProjectSettings_property_input_devices/pointing/android/enable_pan_and_scale_gestures>` project setting to be enabled.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`factor<class_InputEventMagnifyGesture_property_factor>` | ``1.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEventMagnifyGesture_property_factor:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **factor** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_factor** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_factor** **(** **)**

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
