classes/class_audiostreamwav.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamWAV.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV:

AudioStreamWAV
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Stores audio data loaded from WAV files.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

AudioStreamWAV stores sound samples loaded from WAV files. To play the stored sound, use an :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer<class_AudioStreamPlayer>` (for non-positional audio) or :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer2D<class_AudioStreamPlayer2D>`/:ref:`AudioStreamPlayer3D<class_AudioStreamPlayer3D>` (for positional audio). The sound can be looped.

This class can also be used to store dynamically-generated PCM audio data. See also :ref:`AudioStreamGenerator<class_AudioStreamGenerator>` for procedural audio generation.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Runtime file loading and saving <../tutorials/io/runtime_file_loading_and_saving>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` | :ref:`data<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data>`             | ``PackedByteArray()`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`     | :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>`         | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`     | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` | :ref:`loop_mode<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode>`   | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`mix_rate<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate>`     | ``44100``             |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                       | :ref:`stereo<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo>`         | ``false``             |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` | :ref:`load_from_buffer<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer>`\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` | :ref:`load_from_file<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static|                              |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>`       | :ref:`save_to_wav<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                                                                                 |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **Format**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_8_BITS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_8_BITS** = ``0``

8-bit PCM audio codec.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_16_BITS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_16_BITS** = ``1``

16-bit PCM audio codec.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_IMA_ADPCM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_IMA_ADPCM** = ``2``

Audio is lossily compressed as IMA ADPCM.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_QOA:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_QOA** = ``3``

Audio is lossily compressed as `Quite OK Audio <https://qoaformat.org/>`__.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **LoopMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>`

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_DISABLED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_DISABLED** = ``0``

Audio does not loop.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_FORWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_FORWARD** = ``1``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing forward only.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_PINGPONG:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_PINGPONG** = ``2``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing back and forth.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_BACKWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_BACKWARD** = ``3``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing backward only.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` **data** = ``PackedByteArray()`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_data**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ )
- :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` **get_data**\ (\ )

Contains the audio data in bytes.

\ **Note:** If :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>` is set to :ref:`FORMAT_8_BITS<class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_8_BITS>`, this property expects signed 8-bit PCM data. To convert from unsigned 8-bit PCM, subtract 128 from each byte.

\ **Note:** If :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>` is set to :ref:`FORMAT_QOA<class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_QOA>`, this property expects data from a full QOA file.

**Note:** The returned array is *copied* and any changes to it will not update the original property value. See :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` for more details.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **format** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_format**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`\ )
- :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **get_format**\ (\ )

Audio format. See :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` constants for values.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **loop_begin** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_begin**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_loop_begin**\ (\ )

The loop start point (in number of samples, relative to the beginning of the stream).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **loop_end** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_end**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_loop_end**\ (\ )

The loop end point (in number of samples, relative to the beginning of the stream).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **loop_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **get_loop_mode**\ (\ )

The loop mode. See :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` constants for values.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **mix_rate** = ``44100`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mix_rate**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_mix_rate**\ (\ )

The sample rate for mixing this audio. Higher values require more storage space, but result in better quality.

In games, common sample rates in use are ``11025``, ``16000``, ``22050``, ``32000``, ``44100``, and ``48000``.

According to the `Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist%E2%80%93Shannon_sampling_theorem>`__, there is no quality difference to human hearing when going past 40,000 Hz (since most humans can only hear up to ~20,000 Hz, often less). If you are using lower-pitched sounds such as voices, lower sample rates such as ``32000`` or ``22050`` may be usable with no loss in quality.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stereo** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stereo**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stereo**\ (\ )

If ``true``, audio is stereo.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` **load_from_buffer**\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamWAV** instance from the given buffer. The buffer must contain WAV data.

The keys and values of ``options`` match the properties of :ref:`ResourceImporterWAV<class_ResourceImporterWAV>`. The usage of ``options`` is identical to :ref:`load_from_file()<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` **load_from_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamWAV** instance from the given file path. The file must be in WAV format.

The keys and values of ``options`` match the properties of :ref:`ResourceImporterWAV<class_ResourceImporterWAV>`.

\ **Example:** Load the first file dropped as a WAV and play it:

::

    @onready var audio_player = $AudioStreamPlayer
    
    func _ready():
        get_window().files_dropped.connect(_on_files_dropped)
    
    func _on_files_dropped(files):
        if files[0].get_extension() == "wav":
            audio_player.stream = AudioStreamWAV.load_from_file(files[0], {
                    "force/max_rate": true,
                    "force/max_rate_hz": 11025
                })
            audio_player.play()

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **save_to_wav**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav>`

Saves the AudioStreamWAV as a WAV file to ``path``. Samples with IMA ADPCM or Quite OK Audio formats can't be saved.

\ **Note:** A ``.wav`` extension is automatically appended to ``path`` if it is missing.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (42c7f14)

classes/class_audiostreamwav.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamWAV.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV:

AudioStreamWAV
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Stores audio data loaded from WAV files.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

AudioStreamWAV stores sound samples loaded from WAV files. To play the stored sound, use an :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer<class_AudioStreamPlayer>` (for non-positional audio) or :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer2D<class_AudioStreamPlayer2D>`/:ref:`AudioStreamPlayer3D<class_AudioStreamPlayer3D>` (for positional audio). The sound can be looped.

This class can also be used to store dynamically-generated PCM audio data. See also :ref:`AudioStreamGenerator<class_AudioStreamGenerator>` for procedural audio generation.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Runtime file loading and saving <../tutorials/io/runtime_file_loading_and_saving>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` | :ref:`data<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data>`             | ``PackedByteArray()`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`     | :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>`         | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`     | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` | :ref:`loop_mode<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode>`   | ``0``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                         | :ref:`mix_rate<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate>`     | ``44100``             |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                       | :ref:`stereo<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo>`         | ``false``             |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
   | :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`           | :ref:`tags<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_tags>`             | ``{}``                |
   +-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` | :ref:`load_from_buffer<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer>`\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` | :ref:`load_from_file<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static|                              |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>`       | :ref:`save_to_wav<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                                                                                 |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **Format**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_8_BITS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_8_BITS** = ``0``

8-bit PCM audio codec.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_16_BITS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_16_BITS** = ``1``

16-bit PCM audio codec.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_IMA_ADPCM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_IMA_ADPCM** = ``2``

Audio is lossily compressed as IMA ADPCM.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_QOA:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **FORMAT_QOA** = ``3``

Audio is lossily compressed as `Quite OK Audio <https://qoaformat.org/>`__.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **LoopMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>`

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_DISABLED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_DISABLED** = ``0``

Audio does not loop.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_FORWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_FORWARD** = ``1``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing forward only.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_PINGPONG:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_PINGPONG** = ``2``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing back and forth.

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_LOOP_BACKWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **LOOP_BACKWARD** = ``3``

Audio loops the data between :ref:`loop_begin<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>` and :ref:`loop_end<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`, playing backward only.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` **data** = ``PackedByteArray()`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_data>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_data**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ )
- :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` **get_data**\ (\ )

Contains the audio data in bytes.

\ **Note:** If :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>` is set to :ref:`FORMAT_8_BITS<class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_8_BITS>`, this property expects signed 8-bit PCM data. To convert from unsigned 8-bit PCM, subtract 128 from each byte.

\ **Note:** If :ref:`format<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>` is set to :ref:`FORMAT_QOA<class_AudioStreamWAV_constant_FORMAT_QOA>`, this property expects data from a full QOA file.

**Note:** The returned array is *copied* and any changes to it will not update the original property value. See :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>` for more details.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **format** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_format>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_format**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>`\ )
- :ref:`Format<enum_AudioStreamWAV_Format>` **get_format**\ (\ )

Audio format.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **loop_begin** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_begin>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_begin**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_loop_begin**\ (\ )

The loop start point (in number of samples, relative to the beginning of the stream).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **loop_end** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_end>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_end**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_loop_end**\ (\ )

The loop end point (in number of samples, relative to the beginning of the stream).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **loop_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_loop_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LoopMode<enum_AudioStreamWAV_LoopMode>` **get_loop_mode**\ (\ )

The loop mode.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **mix_rate** = ``44100`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_mix_rate>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mix_rate**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_mix_rate**\ (\ )

The sample rate for mixing this audio. Higher values require more storage space, but result in better quality.

In games, common sample rates in use are ``11025``, ``16000``, ``22050``, ``32000``, ``44100``, and ``48000``.

According to the `Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist%E2%80%93Shannon_sampling_theorem>`__, there is no quality difference to human hearing when going past 40,000 Hz (since most humans can only hear up to ~20,000 Hz, often less). If you are using lower-pitched sounds such as voices, lower sample rates such as ``32000`` or ``22050`` may be usable with no loss in quality.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stereo** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_stereo>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stereo**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stereo**\ (\ )

If ``true``, audio is stereo.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_property_tags:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **tags** = ``{}`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_property_tags>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_tags**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\ )
- :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **get_tags**\ (\ )

Contains user-defined tags if found in the WAV data.

Commonly used tags include ``title``, ``artist``, ``album``, ``tracknumber``, and ``date`` (``date`` does not have a standard date format).

\ **Note:** No tag is *guaranteed* to be present in every file, so make sure to account for the keys not always existing.

\ **Note:** Only WAV files using a ``LIST`` chunk with an identifier of ``INFO`` to encode the tags are currently supported.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` **load_from_buffer**\ (\ stream_data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_buffer>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamWAV** instance from the given buffer. The buffer must contain WAV data.

The keys and values of ``options`` match the properties of :ref:`ResourceImporterWAV<class_ResourceImporterWAV>`. The usage of ``options`` is identical to :ref:`load_from_file()<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamWAV<class_AudioStreamWAV>` **load_from_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, options\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` = {}\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_load_from_file>`

Creates a new **AudioStreamWAV** instance from the given file path. The file must be in WAV format.

The keys and values of ``options`` match the properties of :ref:`ResourceImporterWAV<class_ResourceImporterWAV>`.

\ **Example:** Load the first file dropped as a WAV and play it:

::

    @onready var audio_player = $AudioStreamPlayer

    func _ready():
        get_window().files_dropped.connect(_on_files_dropped)

    func _on_files_dropped(files):
        if files[0].get_extension() == "wav":
            audio_player.stream = AudioStreamWAV.load_from_file(files[0], {
                    "force/max_rate": true,
                    "force/max_rate_hz": 11025
                })
            audio_player.play()

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **save_to_wav**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamWAV_method_save_to_wav>`

Saves the AudioStreamWAV as a WAV file to ``path``. Samples with IMA ADPCM or Quite OK Audio formats can't be saved.

\ **Note:** A ``.wav`` extension is automatically appended to ``path`` if it is missing.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
