classes/class_timer.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Timer.xml.

.. _class_Timer:

Timer
=====

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A countdown timer.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Counts down a specified interval and emits a signal on reaching 0. Can be set to repeat or "one-shot" mode.

\ **Note:** Timers are affected by :ref:`Engine.time_scale<class_Engine_property_time_scale>`, a higher scale means quicker timeouts, and vice versa.

\ **Note:** To create a one-shot timer without instantiating a node, use :ref:`SceneTree.create_timer<class_SceneTree_method_create_timer>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/515>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`autostart<class_Timer_property_autostart>`               | ``false`` |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`one_shot<class_Timer_property_one_shot>`                 | ``false`` |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`paused<class_Timer_property_paused>`                     |           |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` | :ref:`process_callback<class_Timer_property_process_callback>` | ``1``     |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                    | :ref:`time_left<class_Timer_property_time_left>`               |           |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                    | :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`               | ``1.0``   |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`is_stopped<class_Timer_method_is_stopped>`\ (\ ) |const|                          |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                  | :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>`\ (\ time_sec\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = -1\ ) |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                  | :ref:`stop<class_Timer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                              |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_Timer_signal_timeout:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**timeout**\ (\ )

Emitted when the timer reaches the end.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **TimerProcessCallback**:

.. _class_Timer_constant_TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS** = ``0``

Update the timer every physics process frame (see :ref:`Node.NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PHYSICS_PROCESS<class_Node_constant_NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PHYSICS_PROCESS>`).

.. _class_Timer_constant_TIMER_PROCESS_IDLE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **TIMER_PROCESS_IDLE** = ``1``

Update the timer every process (rendered) frame (see :ref:`Node.NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PROCESS<class_Node_constant_NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PROCESS>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Timer_property_autostart:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autostart** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autostart**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_autostart**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer will start immediately when it enters the scene tree.

\ **Note:** After the timer enters the tree, this property is automatically set to ``false``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_one_shot:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **one_shot** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_one_shot**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_one_shot**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer will stop after reaching the end. Otherwise, as by default, the timer will automatically restart.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **paused**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer is paused. A paused timer does not process until this property is set back to ``false``, even when :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>` is called.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_process_callback:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **process_callback** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_timer_process_callback**\ (\ value\: :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>`\ )
- :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **get_timer_process_callback**\ (\ )

Specifies when the timer is updated during the main loop (see :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_time_left:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **time_left**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_time_left**\ (\ )

The timer's remaining time in seconds. This is always ``0`` if the timer is stopped.

\ **Note:** This property is read-only and cannot be modified. It is based on :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_wait_time:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **wait_time** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_wait_time**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_wait_time**\ (\ )

The time required for the timer to end, in seconds. This property can also be set every time :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>` is called.

\ **Note:** Timers can only process once per physics or process frame (depending on the :ref:`process_callback<class_Timer_property_process_callback>`). An unstable framerate may cause the timer to end inconsistently, which is especially noticeable if the wait time is lower than roughly ``0.05`` seconds. For very short timers, it is recommended to write your own code instead of using a **Timer** node. Timers are also affected by :ref:`Engine.time_scale<class_Engine_property_time_scale>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Timer_method_is_stopped:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stopped**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the timer is stopped or has not started.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_method_start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **start**\ (\ time_sec\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = -1\ )

Starts the timer, if it was not started already. Fails if the timer is not inside the tree. If ``time_sec`` is greater than ``0``, this value is used for the :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`.

\ **Note:** This method does not resume a paused timer. See :ref:`paused<class_Timer_property_paused>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ )

Stops the timer.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (dad6c77)

classes/class_timer.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Timer.xml.

.. _class_Timer:

Timer
=====

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A countdown timer.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The **Timer** node is a countdown timer and is the simplest way to handle time-based logic in the engine. When a timer reaches the end of its :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`, it will emit the :ref:`timeout<class_Timer_signal_timeout>` signal.

After a timer enters the tree, it can be manually started with :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>`. A timer node is also started automatically if :ref:`autostart<class_Timer_property_autostart>` is ``true``.

Without requiring much code, a timer node can be added and configured in the editor. The :ref:`timeout<class_Timer_signal_timeout>` signal it emits can also be connected through the Node dock in the editor:

::

    func _on_timer_timeout():
        print("Time to attack!")

\ **Note:** To create a one-shot timer without instantiating a node, use :ref:`SceneTree.create_timer<class_SceneTree_method_create_timer>`.

\ **Note:** Timers are affected by :ref:`Engine.time_scale<class_Engine_property_time_scale>`. The higher the time scale, the sooner timers will end. How often a timer processes may depend on the framerate or :ref:`Engine.physics_ticks_per_second<class_Engine_property_physics_ticks_per_second>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/515>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`autostart<class_Timer_property_autostart>`               | ``false`` |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`one_shot<class_Timer_property_one_shot>`                 | ``false`` |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                      | :ref:`paused<class_Timer_property_paused>`                     |           |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` | :ref:`process_callback<class_Timer_property_process_callback>` | ``1``     |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                    | :ref:`time_left<class_Timer_property_time_left>`               |           |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                    | :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`               | ``1.0``   |
   +--------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`is_stopped<class_Timer_method_is_stopped>`\ (\ ) |const|                          |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                  | :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>`\ (\ time_sec\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = -1\ ) |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                  | :ref:`stop<class_Timer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                              |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_Timer_signal_timeout:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**timeout**\ (\ )

Emitted when the timer reaches the end.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **TimerProcessCallback**:

.. _class_Timer_constant_TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS** = ``0``

Update the timer every physics process frame (see :ref:`Node.NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PHYSICS_PROCESS<class_Node_constant_NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PHYSICS_PROCESS>`).

.. _class_Timer_constant_TIMER_PROCESS_IDLE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **TIMER_PROCESS_IDLE** = ``1``

Update the timer every process (rendered) frame (see :ref:`Node.NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PROCESS<class_Node_constant_NOTIFICATION_INTERNAL_PROCESS>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Timer_property_autostart:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autostart** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autostart**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_autostart**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer will start immediately when it enters the scene tree.

\ **Note:** After the timer enters the tree, this property is automatically set to ``false``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_one_shot:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **one_shot** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_one_shot**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_one_shot**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer will stop after reaching the end. Otherwise, as by default, the timer will automatically restart.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **paused**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the timer is paused. A paused timer does not process until this property is set back to ``false``, even when :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>` is called.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_process_callback:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **process_callback** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_timer_process_callback**\ (\ value\: :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>`\ )
- :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>` **get_timer_process_callback**\ (\ )

Specifies when the timer is updated during the main loop (see :ref:`TimerProcessCallback<enum_Timer_TimerProcessCallback>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_time_left:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **time_left**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_time_left**\ (\ )

The timer's remaining time in seconds. This is always ``0`` if the timer is stopped.

\ **Note:** This property is read-only and cannot be modified. It is based on :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_property_wait_time:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **wait_time** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_wait_time**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_wait_time**\ (\ )

The time required for the timer to end, in seconds. This property can also be set every time :ref:`start<class_Timer_method_start>` is called.

\ **Note:** Timers can only process once per physics or process frame (depending on the :ref:`process_callback<class_Timer_property_process_callback>`). An unstable framerate may cause the timer to end inconsistently, which is especially noticeable if the wait time is lower than roughly ``0.05`` seconds. For very short timers, it is recommended to write your own code instead of using a **Timer** node. Timers are also affected by :ref:`Engine.time_scale<class_Engine_property_time_scale>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Timer_method_is_stopped:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stopped**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the timer is stopped or has not started.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_method_start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **start**\ (\ time_sec\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = -1\ )

Starts the timer, if it was not started already. Fails if the timer is not inside the tree. If ``time_sec`` is greater than ``0``, this value is used for the :ref:`wait_time<class_Timer_property_wait_time>`.

\ **Note:** This method does not resume a paused timer. See :ref:`paused<class_Timer_property_paused>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Timer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ )

Stops the timer.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
