classes/class_compositor.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Compositor.xml.

.. _class_Compositor:

Compositor
==========

**Experimental:** More customisation of the rendering pipeline will be added in the future.

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

The compositor resource holds the configuration with which rendering of a viewport can be customised.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The compositor resource holds the configuration with which rendering of a viewport can be customised.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] | :ref:`compositor_effects<class_Compositor_property_compositor_effects>` | ``[]`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Compositor_property_compositor_effects:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] **compositor_effects** = ``[]``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_compositor_effects**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\]\ )
- :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] **get_compositor_effects**\ (\ )

The custom :ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\ s that are applied during rendering of viewports using this compositor.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (dad6c77)

classes/class_compositor.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Compositor.xml.

.. _class_Compositor:

Compositor
==========

**Experimental:** More customisation of the rendering pipeline will be added in the future.

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Stores attributes used to customize how a Viewport is rendered.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The compositor resource stores attributes used to customize how a :ref:`Viewport<class_Viewport>` is rendered.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] | :ref:`compositor_effects<class_Compositor_property_compositor_effects>` | ``[]`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Compositor_property_compositor_effects:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] **compositor_effects** = ``[]``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_compositor_effects**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\]\ )
- :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\] **get_compositor_effects**\ (\ )

The custom :ref:`CompositorEffect<class_CompositorEffect>`\ s that are applied during rendering of viewports using this compositor.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
