classes/class_videostreamplayer.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/VideoStreamPlayer.xml.

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer:

VideoStreamPlayer
=================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A control used for video playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A control used for playback of :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` resources.

Supported video formats are `Ogg Theora <https://www.theora.org/>`__ (``.ogv``, :ref:`VideoStreamTheora<class_VideoStreamTheora>`) and any format exposed via a GDExtension plugin.

\ **Warning:** On Web, video playback *will* perform poorly due to missing architecture-specific assembly optimizations.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Playing videos <../tutorials/animation/playing_videos>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`audio_track<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track>`         | ``0``         |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`autoplay<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`               | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`buffering_msec<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec>`   | ``500``       |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`   | :ref:`bus<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus>`                         | ``&"Master"`` |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`expand<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand>`                   | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`loop<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop>`                       | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`paused<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused>`                   | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` | :ref:`stream<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream>`                   |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`stream_position<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position>` |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`volume<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume>`                   |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`volume_db<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`             | ``0.0``       |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`         | :ref:`get_stream_length<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`       | :ref:`get_stream_name<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name>`\ (\ ) |const|     |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`get_video_texture<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`           | :ref:`is_playing<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing>`\ (\ ) |const|               |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                            | :ref:`play<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play>`\ (\ )                                   |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                            | :ref:`stop<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                   |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_signal_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_signal_finished>`

Emitted when playback is finished.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **audio_track** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_audio_track**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_audio_track**\ (\ )

The embedded audio track to play.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autoplay** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_autoplay**\ (\ )

If ``true``, playback starts when the scene loads.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **buffering_msec** = ``500`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_buffering_msec**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_buffering_msec**\ (\ )

Amount of time in milliseconds to store in buffer while playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **bus** = ``&"Master"`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bus**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_bus**\ (\ )

Audio bus to use for sound playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **expand** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_expand**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_expand**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video scales to the control size. Otherwise, the control minimum size will be automatically adjusted to match the video stream's dimensions.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **loop** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_loop**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video restarts when it reaches its end.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **paused** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video is paused.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` **stream** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream**\ (\ value\: :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>`\ )
- :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` **get_stream**\ (\ )

The assigned video stream. See description for supported formats.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **stream_position** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream_position**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_stream_position**\ (\ )

The current position of the stream, in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume**\ (\ )

Audio volume as a linear value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Audio volume in dB.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_stream_length**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length>`

The length of the current stream, in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_stream_name**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name>`

Returns the video stream's name, or ``"<No Stream>"`` if no video stream is assigned.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_video_texture**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture>`

Returns the current frame as a :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing>`

Returns ``true`` if the video is playing.

\ **Note:** The video is still considered playing if paused during playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play>`

Starts the video playback from the beginning. If the video is paused, this will not unpause the video.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop>`

Stops the video playback and sets the stream position to 0.

\ **Note:** Although the stream position will be set to 0, the first frame of the video stream won't become the current frame.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (42c7f14)

classes/class_videostreamplayer.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/VideoStreamPlayer.xml.

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer:

VideoStreamPlayer
=================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A control used for video playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A control used for playback of :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` resources.

Supported video formats are `Ogg Theora <https://www.theora.org/>`__ (``.ogv``, :ref:`VideoStreamTheora<class_VideoStreamTheora>`) and any format exposed via a GDExtension plugin.

\ **Warning:** On Web, video playback *will* perform poorly due to missing architecture-specific assembly optimizations.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Playing videos <../tutorials/animation/playing_videos>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`audio_track<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track>`         | ``0``         |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`autoplay<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`               | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`buffering_msec<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec>`   | ``500``       |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`   | :ref:`bus<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus>`                         | ``&"Master"`` |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`expand<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand>`                   | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`loop<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop>`                       | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`paused<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused>`                   | ``false``     |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`speed_scale<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_speed_scale>`         | ``1.0``       |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` | :ref:`stream<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream>`                   |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`stream_position<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position>` |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`volume<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume>`                   |               |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`volume_db<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`             | ``0.0``       |
   +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`         | :ref:`get_stream_length<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`       | :ref:`get_stream_name<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name>`\ (\ ) |const|     |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`get_video_texture<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`           | :ref:`is_playing<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing>`\ (\ ) |const|               |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                            | :ref:`play<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play>`\ (\ )                                   |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                            | :ref:`stop<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                   |
   +-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_signal_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_signal_finished>`

Emitted when playback is finished.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **audio_track** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_audio_track>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_audio_track**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_audio_track**\ (\ )

The embedded audio track to play.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autoplay** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_autoplay**\ (\ )

If ``true``, playback starts when the scene loads.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **buffering_msec** = ``500`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_buffering_msec>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_buffering_msec**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_buffering_msec**\ (\ )

Amount of time in milliseconds to store in buffer while playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **bus** = ``&"Master"`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_bus>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bus**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_bus**\ (\ )

Audio bus to use for sound playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **expand** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_expand>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_expand**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_expand**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video scales to the control size. Otherwise, the control minimum size will be automatically adjusted to match the video stream's dimensions.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **loop** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_loop>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_loop**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video restarts when it reaches its end.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **paused** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the video is paused.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_speed_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **speed_scale** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_speed_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_speed_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_speed_scale**\ (\ )

The stream's current speed scale. ``1.0`` is the normal speed, while ``2.0`` is double speed and ``0.5`` is half speed. A speed scale of ``0.0`` pauses the video, similar to setting :ref:`paused<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_paused>` to ``true``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` **stream** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream**\ (\ value\: :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>`\ )
- :ref:`VideoStream<class_VideoStream>` **get_stream**\ (\ )

The assigned video stream. See description for supported formats.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **stream_position** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_stream_position>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream_position**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_stream_position**\ (\ )

The current position of the stream, in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume** :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume**\ (\ )

Audio volume as a linear value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Audio volume in dB.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_stream_length**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_length>`

The length of the current stream, in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_stream_name**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_name>`

Returns the video stream's name, or ``"<No Stream>"`` if no video stream is assigned.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_video_texture**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_get_video_texture>`

Returns the current frame as a :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_is_playing>`

Returns ``true`` if the video is playing.

\ **Note:** The video is still considered playing if paused during playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_play>`

Starts the video playback from the beginning. If the video is paused, this will not unpause the video.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_VideoStreamPlayer_method_stop>`

Stops the video playback and sets the stream position to 0.

\ **Note:** Although the stream position will be set to 0, the first frame of the video stream won't become the current frame.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
