classes/class_editorexportplatformpc.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorExportPlatformPC.xml.

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformPC:

EditorExportPlatformPC
======================

**Inherits:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatform<class_EditorExportPlatform>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD>`, :ref:`EditorExportPlatformWindows<class_EditorExportPlatformWindows>`

Base class for the desktop platform exporter (Windows and Linux/BSD).

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (029aade)

classes/class_editorexportplatformpc.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorExportPlatformPC.xml.

.. _class_EditorExportPlatformPC:

EditorExportPlatformPC
======================

**Inherits:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatform<class_EditorExportPlatform>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD<class_EditorExportPlatformLinuxBSD>`, :ref:`EditorExportPlatformWindows<class_EditorExportPlatformWindows>`

Base class for the desktop platform exporter (Windows and Linux/BSD).

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The base class for the desktop platform exporters. These include Windows and Linux/BSD, but not macOS. See the classes inheriting this one for more details.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Exporting for Windows <../tutorials/export/exporting_for_windows>`

- :doc:`Exporting for Linux <../tutorials/export/exporting_for_linux>`

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
