classes/class_audiostreamplayback.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamPlayback.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback:

AudioStreamPlayback
===================

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`AudioStreamPlaybackPolyphonic<class_AudioStreamPlaybackPolyphonic>`, :ref:`AudioStreamPlaybackResampled<class_AudioStreamPlaybackResampled>`

Meta class for playing back audio.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Can play, loop, pause a scroll through audio. See :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` and :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` for usage.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `Audio Generator Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/526>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`_get_loop_count<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_loop_count>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` | :ref:`_get_parameter<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_parameter>` **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name **)** |virtual| |const|                              |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`     | :ref:`_get_playback_position<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_playback_position>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                       |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`       | :ref:`_is_playing<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__is_playing>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`_mix<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__mix>` **(** AudioFrame* buffer, :ref:`float<class_float>` rate_scale, :ref:`int<class_int>` frames **)** |virtual|            |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_seek<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__seek>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` position **)** |virtual|                                                              |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_set_parameter<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__set_parameter>` **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name, :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` value **)** |virtual| |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_start<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__start>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_pos **)** |virtual|                                                            |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_stop<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__stop>` **(** **)** |virtual|                                                                                                 |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_tag_used_streams<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__tag_used_streams>` **(** **)** |virtual|                                                                         |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_loop_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **_get_loop_count** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` **_get_parameter** **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name **)** |virtual| |const|

Return the current value of a playback parameter by name (see :ref:`AudioStream._get_parameter_list<class_AudioStream_private_method__get_parameter_list>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_playback_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **_get_playback_position** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_is_playing** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__mix:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **_mix** **(** AudioFrame* buffer, :ref:`float<class_float>` rate_scale, :ref:`int<class_int>` frames **)** |virtual|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__seek:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_seek** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` position **)** |virtual|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__set_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_set_parameter** **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name, :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` value **)** |virtual|

Set the current value of a playback parameter by name (see :ref:`AudioStream._get_parameter_list<class_AudioStream_private_method__get_parameter_list>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_start** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_pos **)** |virtual|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_stop** **(** **)** |virtual|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__tag_used_streams:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_tag_used_streams** **(** **)** |virtual|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (8ff8216)

classes/class_audiostreamplayback.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamPlayback.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback:

AudioStreamPlayback
===================

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`AudioStreamPlaybackPolyphonic<class_AudioStreamPlaybackPolyphonic>`, :ref:`AudioStreamPlaybackResampled<class_AudioStreamPlaybackResampled>`

Meta class for playing back audio.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Can play, loop, pause a scroll through audio. See :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` and :ref:`AudioStreamOggVorbis<class_AudioStreamOggVorbis>` for usage.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `Audio Generator Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/526>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`_get_loop_count<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_loop_count>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` | :ref:`_get_parameter<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_parameter>` **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name **)** |virtual| |const|                              |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`     | :ref:`_get_playback_position<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_playback_position>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                       |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`       | :ref:`_is_playing<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__is_playing>` **(** **)** |virtual| |const|                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`_mix<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__mix>` **(** AudioFrame* buffer, :ref:`float<class_float>` rate_scale, :ref:`int<class_int>` frames **)** |virtual|            |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_seek<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__seek>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` position **)** |virtual|                                                              |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_set_parameter<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__set_parameter>` **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name, :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` value **)** |virtual| |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_start<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__start>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_pos **)** |virtual|                                                            |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_stop<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__stop>` **(** **)** |virtual|                                                                                                 |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                          | :ref:`_tag_used_streams<class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__tag_used_streams>` **(** **)** |virtual|                                                                         |
   +-------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_loop_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **_get_loop_count** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Overridable method. Should return how many times this audio stream has looped. Most built-in playbacks always return ``0``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` **_get_parameter** **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name **)** |virtual| |const|

Return the current value of a playback parameter by name (see :ref:`AudioStream._get_parameter_list<class_AudioStream_private_method__get_parameter_list>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__get_playback_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **_get_playback_position** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Overridable method. Should return the current progress along the audio stream, in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_is_playing** **(** **)** |virtual| |const|

Overridable method. Should return ``true`` if this playback is active and playing its audio stream.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__mix:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **_mix** **(** AudioFrame* buffer, :ref:`float<class_float>` rate_scale, :ref:`int<class_int>` frames **)** |virtual|

Override this method to customize how the audio stream is mixed. This method is called even if the playback is not active.

\ **Note:** It is not useful to override this method in GDScript or C#. Only GDExtension can take advantage of it.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__seek:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_seek** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` position **)** |virtual|

Override this method to customize what happens when seeking this audio stream at the given ``position``, such as by calling :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer.seek<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__set_parameter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_set_parameter** **(** :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` name, :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` value **)** |virtual|

Set the current value of a playback parameter by name (see :ref:`AudioStream._get_parameter_list<class_AudioStream_private_method__get_parameter_list>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_start** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_pos **)** |virtual|

Override this method to customize what happens when the playback starts at the given position, such as by calling :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer.play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_stop** **(** **)** |virtual|

Override this method to customize what happens when the playback is stopped, such as by calling :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer.stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayback_private_method__tag_used_streams:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **_tag_used_streams** **(** **)** |virtual|

Overridable method. Called whenever the audio stream is mixed if the playback is active and :ref:`AudioServer.set_enable_tagging_used_audio_streams<class_AudioServer_method_set_enable_tagging_used_audio_streams>` has been set to ``true``. Editor plugins may use this method to "tag" the current position along the audio stream and display it in a preview.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
