classes/class_staticbody.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.5/doc/classes/StaticBody.xml.

.. _class_StaticBody:

StaticBody
==========

**Inherits:** :ref:`PhysicsBody<class_PhysicsBody>` **<** :ref:`CollisionObject<class_CollisionObject>` **<** :ref:`Spatial<class_Spatial>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Physics body for 3D physics which is static or moves only by script. Useful for floor and walls.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Static body for 3D physics.

A static body is a simple body that doesn't move under physics simulation, i.e. it can't be moved by external forces or contacts but its transformation can still be updated manually by the user. It is ideal for implementing objects in the environment, such as walls or platforms. In contrast to :ref:`RigidBody<class_RigidBody>`, it doesn't consume any CPU resources as long as they don't move.

They have extra functionalities to move and affect other bodies:

\ **Static transform change:** Static bodies can be moved by animation or script. In this case, they are just teleported and don't affect other bodies on their path.

\ **Constant velocity:** When :ref:`constant_linear_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity>` or :ref:`constant_angular_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity>` is set, static bodies don't move themselves but affect touching bodies as if they were moving. This is useful for simulating conveyor belts or conveyor wheels.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Physics Tests Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/675>`__

- `Third Person Shooter Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/678>`__

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/676>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                     | :ref:`bounce<class_StaticBody_property_bounce>`                                       |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>`                 | :ref:`constant_angular_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity>` | ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>`                 | :ref:`constant_linear_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity>`   | ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                     | :ref:`friction<class_StaticBody_property_friction>`                                   |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` | :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>` |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_StaticBody_property_bounce:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bounce**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_bounce** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bounce** **(** **)**

The body's bounciness. Values range from ``0`` (no bounce) to ``1`` (full bounciness).

Deprecated, use :ref:`PhysicsMaterial.bounce<class_PhysicsMaterial_property_bounce>` instead via :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **constant_angular_velocity** = ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constant_angular_velocity** **(** :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` value **)**
- :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **get_constant_angular_velocity** **(** **)**

The body's constant angular velocity. This does not rotate the body, but affects other bodies that touch it, as if it was in a state of rotation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **constant_linear_velocity** = ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constant_linear_velocity** **(** :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` value **)**
- :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **get_constant_linear_velocity** **(** **)**

The body's constant linear velocity. This does not move the body, but affects other bodies that touch it, as if it was in a state of movement.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_friction:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **friction**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_friction** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_friction** **(** **)**

The body's friction, from 0 (frictionless) to 1 (full friction).

Deprecated, use :ref:`PhysicsMaterial.friction<class_PhysicsMaterial_property_friction>` instead via :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` **physics_material_override**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_physics_material_override** **(** :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` value **)**
- :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` **get_physics_material_override** **(** **)**

The physics material override for the body.

If a material is assigned to this property, it will be used instead of any other physics material, such as an inherited one.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current 3.x branch (de2f0f1)

classes/class_staticbody.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/3.6/doc/classes/StaticBody.xml.

.. _class_StaticBody:

StaticBody
==========

**Inherits:** :ref:`PhysicsBody<class_PhysicsBody>` **<** :ref:`CollisionObject<class_CollisionObject>` **<** :ref:`Spatial<class_Spatial>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Physics body for 3D physics which is static or moves only by script. Useful for floor and walls.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Static body for 3D physics.

A static body is a simple body that doesn't move under physics simulation, i.e. it can't be moved by external forces or contacts but its transformation can still be updated manually by the user. It is ideal for implementing objects in the environment, such as walls or platforms. In contrast to :ref:`RigidBody<class_RigidBody>`, it doesn't consume any CPU resources as long as they don't move.

They have extra functionalities to move and affect other bodies:

\ *Static transform change:* Static bodies can be moved by animation or script. In this case, they are just teleported and don't affect other bodies on their path.

\ *Constant velocity:* When :ref:`constant_linear_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity>` or :ref:`constant_angular_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity>` is set, static bodies don't move themselves but affect touching bodies as if they were moving. This is useful for simulating conveyor belts or conveyor wheels.

\ **Warning:** With a non-uniform scale this node will probably not function as expected. Please make sure to keep its scale uniform (i.e. the same on all axes), and change the size(s) of its collision shape(s) instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Physics Tests Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/675>`__

- `Third Person Shooter Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/678>`__

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/676>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                     | :ref:`bounce<class_StaticBody_property_bounce>`                                       |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>`                 | :ref:`constant_angular_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity>` | ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>`                 | :ref:`constant_linear_velocity<class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity>`   | ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                     | :ref:`friction<class_StaticBody_property_friction>`                                   |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+
   | :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` | :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>` |                        |
   +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_StaticBody_property_bounce:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bounce**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_bounce** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bounce** **(** **)**

The body's bounciness. Values range from ``0`` (no bounce) to ``1`` (full bounciness).

Deprecated, use :ref:`PhysicsMaterial.bounce<class_PhysicsMaterial_property_bounce>` instead via :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_constant_angular_velocity:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **constant_angular_velocity** = ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constant_angular_velocity** **(** :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` value **)**
- :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **get_constant_angular_velocity** **(** **)**

The body's constant angular velocity. This does not rotate the body, but affects other bodies that touch it, as if it was in a state of rotation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_constant_linear_velocity:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **constant_linear_velocity** = ``Vector3( 0, 0, 0 )``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constant_linear_velocity** **(** :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` value **)**
- :ref:`Vector3<class_Vector3>` **get_constant_linear_velocity** **(** **)**

The body's constant linear velocity. This does not move the body, but affects other bodies that touch it, as if it was in a state of movement.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_friction:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **friction**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_friction** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_friction** **(** **)**

The body's friction, from 0 (frictionless) to 1 (full friction).

Deprecated, use :ref:`PhysicsMaterial.friction<class_PhysicsMaterial_property_friction>` instead via :ref:`physics_material_override<class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_StaticBody_property_physics_material_override:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` **physics_material_override**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_physics_material_override** **(** :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` value **)**
- :ref:`PhysicsMaterial<class_PhysicsMaterial>` **get_physics_material_override** **(** **)**

The physics material override for the body.

If a material is assigned to this property, it will be used instead of any other physics material, such as an inherited one.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
