classes/class_joint2d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Joint2D.xml.

.. _class_Joint2D:

Joint2D
=======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`DampedSpringJoint2D<class_DampedSpringJoint2D>`, :ref:`GrooveJoint2D<class_GrooveJoint2D>`, :ref:`PinJoint2D<class_PinJoint2D>`

Abstract base class for all 2D physics joints.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Abstract base class for all joints in 2D physics. 2D joints bind together two physics bodies and apply a constraint.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`       | :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>`                           | ``0.0``          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`disable_collision<class_Joint2D_property_disable_collision>` | ``true``         |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>`                       | ``NodePath("")`` |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>`                       | ``NodePath("")`` |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>` | :ref:`get_rid<class_Joint2D_method_get_rid>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Joint2D_property_bias:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bias** = ``0.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bias**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bias**\ (\ )

When :ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>` and :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>` move in different directions the :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>` controls how fast the joint pulls them back to their original position. The lower the :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>` the more the two bodies can pull on the joint.

When set to ``0``, the default value from :ref:`ProjectSettings.physics/2d/solver/default_constraint_bias<class_ProjectSettings_property_physics/2d/solver/default_constraint_bias>` is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_disable_collision:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **disable_collision** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_exclude_nodes_from_collision**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_exclude_nodes_from_collision**\ (\ )

If ``true``, :ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>` and :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>` can not collide.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_node_a:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **node_a** = ``NodePath("")``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_node_a**\ (\ value\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )
- :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_node_a**\ (\ )

The first body attached to the joint. Must derive from :ref:`PhysicsBody2D<class_PhysicsBody2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_node_b:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **node_b** = ``NodePath("")``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_node_b**\ (\ value\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )
- :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_node_b**\ (\ )

The second body attached to the joint. Must derive from :ref:`PhysicsBody2D<class_PhysicsBody2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Joint2D_method_get_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_rid**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns the joint's :ref:`RID<class_RID>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (705b7a0)

classes/class_joint2d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/Joint2D.xml.

.. _class_Joint2D:

Joint2D
=======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`DampedSpringJoint2D<class_DampedSpringJoint2D>`, :ref:`GrooveJoint2D<class_GrooveJoint2D>`, :ref:`PinJoint2D<class_PinJoint2D>`

Abstract base class for all 2D physics joints.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Abstract base class for all joints in 2D physics. 2D joints bind together two physics bodies (:ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>` and :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>`) and apply a constraint.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`       | :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>`                           | ``0.0``          |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`         | :ref:`disable_collision<class_Joint2D_property_disable_collision>` | ``true``         |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>`                       | ``NodePath("")`` |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+
   | :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` | :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>`                       | ``NodePath("")`` |
   +---------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>` | :ref:`get_rid<class_Joint2D_method_get_rid>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Joint2D_property_bias:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **bias** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_Joint2D_property_bias>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bias**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bias**\ (\ )

When :ref:`node_a<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>` and :ref:`node_b<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>` move in different directions the :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>` controls how fast the joint pulls them back to their original position. The lower the :ref:`bias<class_Joint2D_property_bias>` the more the two bodies can pull on the joint.

When set to ``0``, the default value from :ref:`ProjectSettings.physics/2d/solver/default_constraint_bias<class_ProjectSettings_property_physics/2d/solver/default_constraint_bias>` is used.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_disable_collision:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **disable_collision** = ``true`` :ref:`🔗<class_Joint2D_property_disable_collision>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_exclude_nodes_from_collision**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_exclude_nodes_from_collision**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the two bodies bound together do not collide with each other.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_node_a:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **node_a** = ``NodePath("")`` :ref:`🔗<class_Joint2D_property_node_a>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_node_a**\ (\ value\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )
- :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_node_a**\ (\ )

Path to the first body (A) attached to the joint. The node must inherit :ref:`PhysicsBody2D<class_PhysicsBody2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Joint2D_property_node_b:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **node_b** = ``NodePath("")`` :ref:`🔗<class_Joint2D_property_node_b>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_node_b**\ (\ value\: :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>`\ )
- :ref:`NodePath<class_NodePath>` **get_node_b**\ (\ )

Path to the second body (B) attached to the joint. The node must inherit :ref:`PhysicsBody2D<class_PhysicsBody2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Joint2D_method_get_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_rid**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_Joint2D_method_get_rid>`

Returns the joint's internal :ref:`RID<class_RID>` from the :ref:`PhysicsServer2D<class_PhysicsServer2D>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
