classes/class_capsuleshape3d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CapsuleShape3D.xml.

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D:

CapsuleShape3D
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Shape3D<class_Shape3D>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A 3D capsule shape used for physics collision.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A 3D capsule shape, intended for use in physics. Usually used to provide a shape for a :ref:`CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>`.

\ **Performance:** **CapsuleShape3D** is fast to check collisions against. It is faster than :ref:`CylinderShape3D<class_CylinderShape3D>`, but slower than :ref:`SphereShape3D<class_SphereShape3D>` and :ref:`BoxShape3D<class_BoxShape3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Physics Tests Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2747>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`height<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height>` | ``2.0`` |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`radius<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius>` | ``0.5`` |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **height** = ``2.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_height**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_height**\ (\ )

The capsule's height.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **radius** = ``0.5`` :ref:`🔗<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_radius**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_radius**\ (\ )

The capsule's radius.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (45fc515)

classes/class_capsuleshape3d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CapsuleShape3D.xml.

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D:

CapsuleShape3D
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Shape3D<class_Shape3D>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A 3D capsule shape used for physics collision.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A 3D capsule shape, intended for use in physics. Usually used to provide a shape for a :ref:`CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>`.

\ **Performance:** **CapsuleShape3D** is fast to check collisions against. It is faster than :ref:`CylinderShape3D<class_CylinderShape3D>`, but slower than :ref:`SphereShape3D<class_SphereShape3D>` and :ref:`BoxShape3D<class_BoxShape3D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Physics Tests Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2747>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`height<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height>`         | ``2.0`` |
   +---------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`mid_height<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_mid_height>` |         |
   +---------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`radius<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius>`         | ``0.5`` |
   +---------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **height** = ``2.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_height**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_height**\ (\ )

The capsule's full height, including the hemispheres.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D_property_mid_height:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **mid_height** :ref:`🔗<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_mid_height>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mid_height**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_mid_height**\ (\ )

The capsule's height, excluding the hemispheres. This is the height of the central cylindrical part in the middle of the capsule, and is the distance between the centers of the two hemispheres. This is a wrapper for :ref:`height<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_height>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **radius** = ``0.5`` :ref:`🔗<class_CapsuleShape3D_property_radius>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_radius**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_radius**\ (\ )

The capsule's radius.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
