classes/class_editorinspector.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorInspector.xml.

.. _class_EditorInspector:

EditorInspector
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer>` **<** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A control used to edit properties of an object.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This is the control that implements property editing in the editor's Settings dialogs, the Inspector dock, etc. To get the **EditorInspector** used in the editor's Inspector dock, use :ref:`EditorInterface.get_inspector<class_EditorInterface_method_get_inspector>`.

\ **EditorInspector** will show properties in the same order as the array returned by :ref:`Object.get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`.

If a property's name is path-like (i.e. if it contains forward slashes), **EditorInspector** will create nested sections for "directories" along the path. For example, if a property is named ``highlighting/gdscript/node_path_color``, it will be shown as "Node Path Color" inside the "GDScript" section nested inside the "Highlighting" section.

If a property has :ref:`@GlobalScope.PROPERTY_USAGE_GROUP<class_@GlobalScope_constant_PROPERTY_USAGE_GROUP>` usage, it will group subsequent properties whose name starts with the property's hint string. The group ends when a property does not start with that hint string or when a new group starts. An empty group name effectively ends the current group. **EditorInspector** will create a top-level section for each group. For example, if a property with group usage is named ``Collide With`` and its hint string is ``collide_with_``, a subsequent ``collide_with_area`` property will be shown as "Area" inside the "Collide With" section. There is also a special case: when the hint string contains the name of a property, that property is grouped too. This is mainly to help grouping properties like ``font``, ``font_color`` and ``font_size`` (using the hint string ``font_``).

If a property has :ref:`@GlobalScope.PROPERTY_USAGE_SUBGROUP<class_@GlobalScope_constant_PROPERTY_USAGE_SUBGROUP>` usage, a subgroup will be created in the same way as a group, and a second-level section will be created for each subgroup.

\ **Note:** Unlike sections created from path-like property names, **EditorInspector** won't capitalize the name for sections created from groups. So properties with group usage usually use capitalized names instead of snake_cased names.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | draw_focus_border      | ``true`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_draw_focus_border>`)   |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`FocusMode<enum_Control_FocusMode>`           | focus_mode             | ``2`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_focus_mode>`)                             |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | follow_focus           | ``true`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_follow_focus>`)        |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`ScrollMode<enum_ScrollContainer_ScrollMode>` | horizontal_scroll_mode | ``0`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_horizontal_scroll_mode>`) |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Object<class_Object>`                 | :ref:`get_edited_object<class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                 | :ref:`get_selected_path<class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`EditorProperty<class_EditorProperty>` | :ref:`instantiate_property_editor<class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor>`\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`, type\: :ref:`Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, hint\: :ref:`PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`, hint_text\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, usage\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, wide\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_edited_object_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**edited_object_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_edited_object_changed>`

Emitted when the object being edited by the inspector has changed.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_object_id_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**object_id_selected**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_object_id_selected>`

Emitted when the Edit button of an :ref:`Object<class_Object>` has been pressed in the inspector. This is mainly used in the remote scene tree Inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_deleted:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_deleted**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_deleted>`

Emitted when a property is removed from the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_edited:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_edited**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_edited>`

Emitted when a property is edited in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_keyed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_keyed**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, advance\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_keyed>`

Emitted when a property is keyed in the inspector. Properties can be keyed by clicking the "key" icon next to a property when the Animation panel is toggled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_selected**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_selected>`

Emitted when a property is selected in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_toggled:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_toggled**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, checked\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_toggled>`

Emitted when a boolean property is toggled in the inspector.

\ **Note:** This signal is never emitted if the internal ``autoclear`` property enabled. Since this property is always enabled in the editor inspector, this signal is never emitted by the editor itself.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_resource_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**resource_selected**\ (\ resource\: :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_resource_selected>`

Emitted when a resource is selected in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_restart_requested:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**restart_requested**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_restart_requested>`

Emitted when a property that requires a restart to be applied is edited in the inspector. This is only used in the Project Settings and Editor Settings.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Object<class_Object>` **get_edited_object**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object>`

Returns the object currently selected in this inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_selected_path**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path>`

Gets the path of the currently selected property.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`EditorProperty<class_EditorProperty>` **instantiate_property_editor**\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`, type\: :ref:`Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, hint\: :ref:`PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`, hint_text\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, usage\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, wide\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor>`

Creates a property editor that can be used by plugin UI to edit the specified property of an ``object``.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (a7a2a12)

classes/class_editorinspector.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorInspector.xml.

.. _class_EditorInspector:

EditorInspector
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer>` **<** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A control used to edit properties of an object.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This is the control that implements property editing in the editor's Settings dialogs, the Inspector dock, etc. To get the **EditorInspector** used in the editor's Inspector dock, use :ref:`EditorInterface.get_inspector<class_EditorInterface_method_get_inspector>`.

\ **EditorInspector** will show properties in the same order as the array returned by :ref:`Object.get_property_list<class_Object_method_get_property_list>`.

If a property's name is path-like (i.e. if it contains forward slashes), **EditorInspector** will create nested sections for "directories" along the path. For example, if a property is named ``highlighting/gdscript/node_path_color``, it will be shown as "Node Path Color" inside the "GDScript" section nested inside the "Highlighting" section.

If a property has :ref:`@GlobalScope.PROPERTY_USAGE_GROUP<class_@GlobalScope_constant_PROPERTY_USAGE_GROUP>` usage, it will group subsequent properties whose name starts with the property's hint string. The group ends when a property does not start with that hint string or when a new group starts. An empty group name effectively ends the current group. **EditorInspector** will create a top-level section for each group. For example, if a property with group usage is named ``Collide With`` and its hint string is ``collide_with_``, a subsequent ``collide_with_area`` property will be shown as "Area" inside the "Collide With" section. There is also a special case: when the hint string contains the name of a property, that property is grouped too. This is mainly to help grouping properties like ``font``, ``font_color`` and ``font_size`` (using the hint string ``font_``).

If a property has :ref:`@GlobalScope.PROPERTY_USAGE_SUBGROUP<class_@GlobalScope_constant_PROPERTY_USAGE_SUBGROUP>` usage, a subgroup will be created in the same way as a group, and a second-level section will be created for each subgroup.

\ **Note:** Unlike sections created from path-like property names, **EditorInspector** won't capitalize the name for sections created from groups. So properties with group usage usually use capitalized names instead of snake_cased names.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | draw_focus_border      | ``true`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_draw_focus_border>`)   |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`FocusMode<enum_Control_FocusMode>`           | focus_mode             | ``2`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_focus_mode>`)                             |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | follow_focus           | ``true`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_follow_focus>`)        |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`ScrollMode<enum_ScrollContainer_ScrollMode>` | horizontal_scroll_mode | ``0`` (overrides :ref:`ScrollContainer<class_ScrollContainer_property_horizontal_scroll_mode>`) |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                      | :ref:`edit<class_EditorInspector_method_edit>`\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`\ )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Object<class_Object>`                 | :ref:`get_edited_object<class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                 | :ref:`get_selected_path<class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`EditorProperty<class_EditorProperty>` | :ref:`instantiate_property_editor<class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor>`\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`, type\: :ref:`Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, hint\: :ref:`PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`, hint_text\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, usage\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, wide\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |static| |
   +---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_edited_object_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**edited_object_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_edited_object_changed>`

Emitted when the object being edited by the inspector has changed.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_object_id_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**object_id_selected**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_object_id_selected>`

Emitted when the Edit button of an :ref:`Object<class_Object>` has been pressed in the inspector. This is mainly used in the remote scene tree Inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_deleted:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_deleted**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_deleted>`

Emitted when a property is removed from the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_edited:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_edited**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_edited>`

Emitted when a property is edited in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_keyed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_keyed**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, advance\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_keyed>`

Emitted when a property is keyed in the inspector. Properties can be keyed by clicking the "key" icon next to a property when the Animation panel is toggled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_selected**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_selected>`

Emitted when a property is selected in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_property_toggled:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**property_toggled**\ (\ property\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, checked\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_property_toggled>`

Emitted when a boolean property is toggled in the inspector.

\ **Note:** This signal is never emitted if the internal ``autoclear`` property enabled. Since this property is always enabled in the editor inspector, this signal is never emitted by the editor itself.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_resource_selected:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**resource_selected**\ (\ resource\: :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_resource_selected>`

Emitted when a resource is selected in the inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_signal_restart_requested:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**restart_requested**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_signal_restart_requested>`

Emitted when a property that requires a restart to be applied is edited in the inspector. This is only used in the Project Settings and Editor Settings.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_edit:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **edit**\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_edit>`

Shows the properties of the given ``object`` in this inspector for editing. To clear the inspector, call this method with ``null``.

\ **Note:** If you want to edit an object in the editor's main inspector, use the ``edit_*`` methods in :ref:`EditorInterface<class_EditorInterface>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Object<class_Object>` **get_edited_object**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_get_edited_object>`

Returns the object currently selected in this inspector.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_selected_path**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_get_selected_path>`

Gets the path of the currently selected property.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`EditorProperty<class_EditorProperty>` **instantiate_property_editor**\ (\ object\: :ref:`Object<class_Object>`, type\: :ref:`Variant.Type<enum_@GlobalScope_Variant.Type>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, hint\: :ref:`PropertyHint<enum_@GlobalScope_PropertyHint>`, hint_text\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, usage\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, wide\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |static| :ref:`🔗<class_EditorInspector_method_instantiate_property_editor>`

Creates a property editor that can be used by plugin UI to edit the specified property of an ``object``.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
