classes/class_audiostreamplayer.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. meta::
	:keywords: sound, music, song

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamPlayer.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer:

AudioStreamPlayer
=================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node for audio playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The **AudioStreamPlayer** node plays an audio stream non-positionally. It is ideal for user interfaces, menus, or background music.

To use this node, :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>` needs to be set to a valid :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` resource. Playing more than one sound at the time is also supported, see :ref:`max_polyphony<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>`.

If you need to play audio at a specific position, use :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer2D<class_AudioStreamPlayer2D>` or :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer3D<class_AudioStreamPlayer3D>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio streams <../tutorials/audio/audio_streams>`

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2712>`__

- `Audio Device Changer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2758>`__

- `Audio Generator Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2759>`__

- `Audio Microphone Record Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2760>`__

- `Audio Spectrum Visualizer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2762>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`autoplay<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`           | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                | :ref:`bus<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus>`                     | ``&"Master"`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                              | :ref:`max_polyphony<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>` | ``1``         |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` | :ref:`mix_target<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target>`       | ``0``         |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                          | :ref:`pitch_scale<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale>`     | ``1.0``       |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`playing<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>`             | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>`              | :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`               |               |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                          | :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`         | ``0.0``       |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`get_playback_position<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position>`\ (\ )                |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` | :ref:`get_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`\ (\ )                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`has_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback>`\ (\ )                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`\ (\ from_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0\ ) |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`seek<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek>`\ (\ to_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )         |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                                  |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished>`

Emitted when a sound finishes playing without interruptions. This signal is *not* emitted when calling :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`, or when exiting the tree while sounds are playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **MixTarget**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>`

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_STEREO:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_STEREO** = ``0``

The audio will be played only on the first channel. This is the default.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_SURROUND:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_SURROUND** = ``1``

The audio will be played on all surround channels.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_CENTER** = ``2``

The audio will be played on the second channel, which is usually the center.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autoplay** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_autoplay_enabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, this node calls :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` when entering the tree.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **bus** = ``&"Master"`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bus**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_bus**\ (\ )

The target bus name. All sounds from this node will be playing on this bus.

\ **Note:** At runtime, if no bus with the given name exists, all sounds will fall back on ``"Master"``. See also :ref:`AudioServer.get_bus_name<class_AudioServer_method_get_bus_name>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **max_polyphony** = ``1`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_max_polyphony**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_max_polyphony**\ (\ )

The maximum number of sounds this node can play at the same time. Calling :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` after this value is reached will cut off the oldest sounds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **mix_target** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mix_target**\ (\ value\: :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>`\ )
- :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **get_mix_target**\ (\ )

The mix target channels, as one of the :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` constants. Has no effect when two speakers or less are detected (see :ref:`SpeakerMode<enum_AudioServer_SpeakerMode>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **pitch_scale** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_pitch_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_pitch_scale**\ (\ )

The audio's pitch and tempo, as a multiplier of the :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`'s sample rate. A value of ``2.0`` doubles the audio's pitch, while a value of ``0.5`` halves the pitch.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **playing** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ )

If ``true``, this node is playing sounds. Setting this property has the same effect as :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` and :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **stream** :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream**\ (\ value\: :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>`\ )
- :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **get_stream**\ (\ )

The :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` resource to be played. Setting this property stops all currently playing sounds. If left empty, the **AudioStreamPlayer** does not work.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stream_paused** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_stream_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the sounds are paused. Setting :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` to ``false`` resumes all sounds.

\ **Note:** This property is automatically changed when exiting or entering the tree, or this node is paused (see :ref:`Node.process_mode<class_Node_property_process_mode>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Volume of sound, in decibel. This is an offset of the :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`'s volume.

\ **Note:** To convert between decibel and linear energy (like most volume sliders do), use :ref:`@GlobalScope.db_to_linear<class_@GlobalScope_method_db_to_linear>` and :ref:`@GlobalScope.linear_to_db<class_@GlobalScope_method_linear_to_db>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_playback_position**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position>`

Returns the position in the :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` of the latest sound, in seconds. Returns ``0.0`` if no sounds are playing.

\ **Note:** The position is not always accurate, as the :ref:`AudioServer<class_AudioServer>` does not mix audio every processed frame. To get more accurate results, add :ref:`AudioServer.get_time_since_last_mix<class_AudioServer_method_get_time_since_last_mix>` to the returned position.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` **get_stream_playback**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`

Returns the latest :ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` of this node, usually the most recently created by :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`. If no sounds are playing, this method fails and returns an empty playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_stream_playback**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback>`

Returns ``true`` if any sound is active, even if :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` is set to ``true``. See also :ref:`playing<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>` and :ref:`get_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ from_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`

Plays a sound from the beginning, or the given ``from_position`` in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **seek**\ (\ to_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek>`

Restarts all sounds to be played from the given ``to_position``, in seconds. Does nothing if no sounds are playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`

Stops all sounds from this node.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (8a6c1e8)

classes/class_audiostreamplayer.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. meta::
	:keywords: sound, music, song

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioStreamPlayer.xml.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer:

AudioStreamPlayer
=================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node for audio playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The **AudioStreamPlayer** node plays an audio stream non-positionally. It is ideal for user interfaces, menus, or background music.

To use this node, :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>` needs to be set to a valid :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` resource. Playing more than one sound at the time is also supported, see :ref:`max_polyphony<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>`.

If you need to play audio at a specific position, use :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer2D<class_AudioStreamPlayer2D>` or :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer3D<class_AudioStreamPlayer3D>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio streams <../tutorials/audio/audio_streams>`

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2712>`__

- `Audio Device Changer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2758>`__

- `Audio Generator Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2759>`__

- `Audio Microphone Record Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2760>`__

- `Audio Spectrum Visualizer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2762>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`autoplay<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`           | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                | :ref:`bus<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus>`                     | ``&"Master"`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                              | :ref:`max_polyphony<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>` | ``1``         |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` | :ref:`mix_target<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target>`       | ``0``         |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                          | :ref:`pitch_scale<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale>`     | ``1.0``       |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`PlaybackType<enum_AudioServer_PlaybackType>` | :ref:`playback_type<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playback_type>` | ``0``         |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`playing<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>`             | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>`              | :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`               |               |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` | ``false``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                          | :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`         | ``0.0``       |
   +----------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`get_playback_position<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position>`\ (\ )                |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` | :ref:`get_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`\ (\ )                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`has_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback>`\ (\ )                    |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`\ (\ from_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0\ ) |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`seek<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek>`\ (\ to_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )         |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                | :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                                  |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished>`

Emitted when a sound finishes playing without interruptions. This signal is *not* emitted when calling :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`, or when exiting the tree while sounds are playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **MixTarget**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>`

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_STEREO:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_STEREO** = ``0``

The audio will be played only on the first channel. This is the default.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_SURROUND:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_SURROUND** = ``1``

The audio will be played on all surround channels.

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_constant_MIX_TARGET_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **MIX_TARGET_CENTER** = ``2``

The audio will be played on the second channel, which is usually the center.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **autoplay** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_autoplay_enabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, this node calls :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` when entering the tree.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **bus** = ``&"Master"`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_bus>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bus**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_bus**\ (\ )

The target bus name. All sounds from this node will be playing on this bus.

\ **Note:** At runtime, if no bus with the given name exists, all sounds will fall back on ``"Master"``. See also :ref:`AudioServer.get_bus_name<class_AudioServer_method_get_bus_name>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **max_polyphony** = ``1`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_max_polyphony>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_max_polyphony**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_max_polyphony**\ (\ )

The maximum number of sounds this node can play at the same time. Calling :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` after this value is reached will cut off the oldest sounds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **mix_target** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_mix_target>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mix_target**\ (\ value\: :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>`\ )
- :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` **get_mix_target**\ (\ )

The mix target channels, as one of the :ref:`MixTarget<enum_AudioStreamPlayer_MixTarget>` constants. Has no effect when two speakers or less are detected (see :ref:`SpeakerMode<enum_AudioServer_SpeakerMode>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **pitch_scale** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_pitch_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_pitch_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_pitch_scale**\ (\ )

The audio's pitch and tempo, as a multiplier of the :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`'s sample rate. A value of ``2.0`` doubles the audio's pitch, while a value of ``0.5`` halves the pitch.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playback_type:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PlaybackType<enum_AudioServer_PlaybackType>` **playback_type** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playback_type>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_playback_type**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PlaybackType<enum_AudioServer_PlaybackType>`\ )
- :ref:`PlaybackType<enum_AudioServer_PlaybackType>` **get_playback_type**\ (\ )

**Experimental:** This property may be changed or removed in future versions.

The playback type of the stream player. If set other than to the default value, it will force that playback type.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **playing** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ )

If ``true``, this node is playing sounds. Setting this property has the same effect as :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>` and :ref:`stop<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **stream** :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream**\ (\ value\: :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>`\ )
- :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` **get_stream**\ (\ )

The :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` resource to be played. Setting this property stops all currently playing sounds. If left empty, the **AudioStreamPlayer** does not work.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stream_paused** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stream_paused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_stream_paused**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the sounds are paused. Setting :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` to ``false`` resumes all sounds.

\ **Note:** This property is automatically changed when exiting or entering the tree, or this node is paused (see :ref:`Node.process_mode<class_Node_property_process_mode>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Volume of sound, in decibel. This is an offset of the :ref:`stream<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream>`'s volume.

\ **Note:** To convert between decibel and linear energy (like most volume sliders do), use :ref:`@GlobalScope.db_to_linear<class_@GlobalScope_method_db_to_linear>` and :ref:`@GlobalScope.linear_to_db<class_@GlobalScope_method_linear_to_db>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_playback_position**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_playback_position>`

Returns the position in the :ref:`AudioStream<class_AudioStream>` of the latest sound, in seconds. Returns ``0.0`` if no sounds are playing.

\ **Note:** The position is not always accurate, as the :ref:`AudioServer<class_AudioServer>` does not mix audio every processed frame. To get more accurate results, add :ref:`AudioServer.get_time_since_last_mix<class_AudioServer_method_get_time_since_last_mix>` to the returned position.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` **get_stream_playback**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`

Returns the latest :ref:`AudioStreamPlayback<class_AudioStreamPlayback>` of this node, usually the most recently created by :ref:`play<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`. If no sounds are playing, this method fails and returns an empty playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_stream_playback**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_has_stream_playback>`

Returns ``true`` if any sound is active, even if :ref:`stream_paused<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_stream_paused>` is set to ``true``. See also :ref:`playing<class_AudioStreamPlayer_property_playing>` and :ref:`get_stream_playback<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_get_stream_playback>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ from_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_play>`

Plays a sound from the beginning, or the given ``from_position`` in seconds.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **seek**\ (\ to_position\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_seek>`

Restarts all sounds to be played from the given ``to_position``, in seconds. Does nothing if no sounds are playing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AudioStreamPlayer_method_stop>`

Stops all sounds from this node.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
