classes/class_visualshadernode.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/VisualShaderNode.xml.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode:

VisualShaderNode
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`VisualShaderNodeBillboard<class_VisualShaderNodeBillboard>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeClamp<class_VisualShaderNodeClamp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeColorFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeColorFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeColorOp<class_VisualShaderNodeColorOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCompare<class_VisualShaderNodeCompare>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeConstant<class_VisualShaderNodeConstant>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCubemap<class_VisualShaderNodeCubemap>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCustom<class_VisualShaderNodeCustom>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDerivativeFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeDerivativeFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDeterminant<class_VisualShaderNodeDeterminant>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDistanceFade<class_VisualShaderNodeDistanceFade>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDotProduct<class_VisualShaderNodeDotProduct>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFloatFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeFloatFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFloatOp<class_VisualShaderNodeFloatOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFresnel<class_VisualShaderNodeFresnel>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIf<class_VisualShaderNodeIf>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeInput<class_VisualShaderNodeInput>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIntFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeIntFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIntOp<class_VisualShaderNodeIntOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIs<class_VisualShaderNodeIs>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeLinearSceneDepth<class_VisualShaderNodeLinearSceneDepth>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeMix<class_VisualShaderNodeMix>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeMultiplyAdd<class_VisualShaderNodeMultiplyAdd>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeOuterProduct<class_VisualShaderNodeOuterProduct>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeOutput<class_VisualShaderNodeOutput>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParameter<class_VisualShaderNodeParameter>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParameterRef<class_VisualShaderNodeParameterRef>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleAccelerator<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleAccelerator>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleConeVelocity<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleConeVelocity>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleEmit<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleEmit>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleEmitter<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleEmitter>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleMultiplyByAxisAngle<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleMultiplyByAxisAngle>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleRandomness<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleRandomness>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeProximityFade<class_VisualShaderNodeProximityFade>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRandomRange<class_VisualShaderNodeRandomRange>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRemap<class_VisualShaderNodeRemap>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeResizableBase<class_VisualShaderNodeResizableBase>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRotationByAxis<class_VisualShaderNodeRotationByAxis>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSample3D<class_VisualShaderNodeSample3D>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeScreenNormalWorldSpace<class_VisualShaderNodeScreenNormalWorldSpace>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeScreenUVToSDF<class_VisualShaderNodeScreenUVToSDF>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSDFRaymarch<class_VisualShaderNodeSDFRaymarch>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSDFToScreenUV<class_VisualShaderNodeSDFToScreenUV>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSmoothStep<class_VisualShaderNodeSmoothStep>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeStep<class_VisualShaderNodeStep>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSwitch<class_VisualShaderNodeSwitch>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTexture<class_VisualShaderNodeTexture>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTextureSDF<class_VisualShaderNodeTextureSDF>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTextureSDFNormal<class_VisualShaderNodeTextureSDFNormal>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformCompose<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformCompose>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformDecompose<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformDecompose>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformOp<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformVecMult<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformVecMult>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUIntFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeUIntFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUIntOp<class_VisualShaderNodeUIntOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUVFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeUVFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUVPolarCoord<class_VisualShaderNodeUVPolarCoord>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeVarying<class_VisualShaderNodeVarying>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeVectorBase<class_VisualShaderNodeVectorBase>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeWorldPositionFromDepth<class_VisualShaderNodeWorldPositionFromDepth>`

Base class for :ref:`VisualShader<class_VisualShader>` nodes. Not related to scene nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Visual shader graphs consist of various nodes. Each node in the graph is a separate object and they are represented as a rectangular boxes with title and a set of properties. Each node also has connection ports that allow to connect it to another nodes and control the flow of the shader.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using VisualShaders <../tutorials/shaders/visual_shaders>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`output_port_for_preview<class_VisualShaderNode_property_output_port_for_preview>` | ``-1`` |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`clear_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_clear_default_input_values>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`get_default_input_port<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_port>`\ (\ type\: :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>`\ ) |const|                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`     | :ref:`get_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_values>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                         |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` | :ref:`get_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                                                                                   |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`remove_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_remove_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_default_input_values>`\ (\ values\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, prev_value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` = null\ ) |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **PortType**:

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR** = ``0``

Floating-point scalar. Translated to ``float`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_INT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_INT** = ``1``

Integer scalar. Translated to ``int`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_UINT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_UINT** = ``2``

Unsigned integer scalar. Translated to ``uint`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_2D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_2D** = ``3``

2D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec2`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_3D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_3D** = ``4``

3D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec3`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_4D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_4D** = ``5``

4D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec4`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_BOOLEAN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_BOOLEAN** = ``6``

Boolean type. Translated to ``bool`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_TRANSFORM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_TRANSFORM** = ``7``

Transform type. Translated to ``mat4`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SAMPLER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SAMPLER** = ``8``

Sampler type. Translated to reference of sampler uniform in shader code. Can only be used for input ports in non-uniform nodes.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_MAX** = ``9``

Represents the size of the :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` enum.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_property_output_port_for_preview:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **output_port_for_preview** = ``-1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_output_port_for_preview**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_output_port_for_preview**\ (\ )

Sets the output port index which will be showed for preview. If set to ``-1`` no port will be open for preview.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_clear_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **clear_default_input_values**\ (\ )

Clears the default input ports value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_port:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_default_input_port**\ (\ type\: :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>`\ ) |const|

Returns the input port which should be connected by default when this node is created as a result of dragging a connection from an existing node to the empty space on the graph.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>` **get_default_input_values**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns an :ref:`Array<class_Array>` containing default values for all of the input ports of the node in the form ``[index0, value0, index1, value1, ...]``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` **get_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|

Returns the default value of the input ``port``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_remove_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

Removes the default value of the input ``port``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_default_input_values**\ (\ values\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\ )

Sets the default input ports values using an :ref:`Array<class_Array>` of the form ``[index0, value0, index1, value1, ...]``. For example: ``[0, Vector3(0, 0, 0), 1, Vector3(0, 0, 0)]``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, prev_value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` = null\ )

Sets the default ``value`` for the selected input ``port``.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (655e93d)

classes/class_visualshadernode.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/VisualShaderNode.xml.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode:

VisualShaderNode
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`VisualShaderNodeBillboard<class_VisualShaderNodeBillboard>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeClamp<class_VisualShaderNodeClamp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeColorFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeColorFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeColorOp<class_VisualShaderNodeColorOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCompare<class_VisualShaderNodeCompare>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeConstant<class_VisualShaderNodeConstant>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCubemap<class_VisualShaderNodeCubemap>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeCustom<class_VisualShaderNodeCustom>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDerivativeFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeDerivativeFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDeterminant<class_VisualShaderNodeDeterminant>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDistanceFade<class_VisualShaderNodeDistanceFade>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeDotProduct<class_VisualShaderNodeDotProduct>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFloatFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeFloatFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFloatOp<class_VisualShaderNodeFloatOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeFresnel<class_VisualShaderNodeFresnel>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIf<class_VisualShaderNodeIf>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeInput<class_VisualShaderNodeInput>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIntFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeIntFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIntOp<class_VisualShaderNodeIntOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeIs<class_VisualShaderNodeIs>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeLinearSceneDepth<class_VisualShaderNodeLinearSceneDepth>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeMix<class_VisualShaderNodeMix>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeMultiplyAdd<class_VisualShaderNodeMultiplyAdd>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeOuterProduct<class_VisualShaderNodeOuterProduct>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeOutput<class_VisualShaderNodeOutput>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParameter<class_VisualShaderNodeParameter>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParameterRef<class_VisualShaderNodeParameterRef>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleAccelerator<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleAccelerator>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleConeVelocity<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleConeVelocity>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleEmit<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleEmit>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleEmitter<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleEmitter>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleMultiplyByAxisAngle<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleMultiplyByAxisAngle>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeParticleRandomness<class_VisualShaderNodeParticleRandomness>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeProximityFade<class_VisualShaderNodeProximityFade>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRandomRange<class_VisualShaderNodeRandomRange>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRemap<class_VisualShaderNodeRemap>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeResizableBase<class_VisualShaderNodeResizableBase>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeRotationByAxis<class_VisualShaderNodeRotationByAxis>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSample3D<class_VisualShaderNodeSample3D>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeScreenNormalWorldSpace<class_VisualShaderNodeScreenNormalWorldSpace>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeScreenUVToSDF<class_VisualShaderNodeScreenUVToSDF>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSDFRaymarch<class_VisualShaderNodeSDFRaymarch>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSDFToScreenUV<class_VisualShaderNodeSDFToScreenUV>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSmoothStep<class_VisualShaderNodeSmoothStep>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeStep<class_VisualShaderNodeStep>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeSwitch<class_VisualShaderNodeSwitch>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTexture<class_VisualShaderNodeTexture>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTextureSDF<class_VisualShaderNodeTextureSDF>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTextureSDFNormal<class_VisualShaderNodeTextureSDFNormal>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformCompose<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformCompose>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformDecompose<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformDecompose>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformOp<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeTransformVecMult<class_VisualShaderNodeTransformVecMult>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUIntFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeUIntFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUIntOp<class_VisualShaderNodeUIntOp>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUVFunc<class_VisualShaderNodeUVFunc>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeUVPolarCoord<class_VisualShaderNodeUVPolarCoord>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeVarying<class_VisualShaderNodeVarying>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeVectorBase<class_VisualShaderNodeVectorBase>`, :ref:`VisualShaderNodeWorldPositionFromDepth<class_VisualShaderNodeWorldPositionFromDepth>`

Base class for :ref:`VisualShader<class_VisualShader>` nodes. Not related to scene nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Visual shader graphs consist of various nodes. Each node in the graph is a separate object and they are represented as a rectangular boxes with title and a set of properties. Each node also has connection ports that allow to connect it to another nodes and control the flow of the shader.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using VisualShaders <../tutorials/shaders/visual_shaders>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`linked_parent_graph_frame<class_VisualShaderNode_property_linked_parent_graph_frame>` | ``-1`` |
   +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`output_port_for_preview<class_VisualShaderNode_property_output_port_for_preview>`     | ``-1`` |
   +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`clear_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_clear_default_input_values>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`         | :ref:`get_default_input_port<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_port>`\ (\ type\: :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>`\ ) |const|                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`     | :ref:`get_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_values>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                         |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` | :ref:`get_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                                                                                   |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`remove_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_remove_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                                                                                     |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_default_input_values<class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_default_input_values>`\ (\ values\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                        | :ref:`set_input_port_default_value<class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_input_port_default_value>`\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, prev_value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` = null\ ) |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **PortType**:

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR** = ``0``

Floating-point scalar. Translated to ``float`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_INT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_INT** = ``1``

Integer scalar. Translated to ``int`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_UINT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SCALAR_UINT** = ``2``

Unsigned integer scalar. Translated to ``uint`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_2D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_2D** = ``3``

2D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec2`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_3D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_3D** = ``4``

3D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec3`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_4D:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_VECTOR_4D** = ``5``

4D vector of floating-point values. Translated to ``vec4`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_BOOLEAN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_BOOLEAN** = ``6``

Boolean type. Translated to ``bool`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_TRANSFORM:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_TRANSFORM** = ``7``

Transform type. Translated to ``mat4`` type in shader code.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_SAMPLER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_SAMPLER** = ``8``

Sampler type. Translated to reference of sampler uniform in shader code. Can only be used for input ports in non-uniform nodes.

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_constant_PORT_TYPE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` **PORT_TYPE_MAX** = ``9``

Represents the size of the :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>` enum.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_property_linked_parent_graph_frame:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **linked_parent_graph_frame** = ``-1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_frame**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_frame**\ (\ )

Represents the index of the frame this node is linked to. If set to ``-1`` the node is not linked to any frame.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_property_output_port_for_preview:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **output_port_for_preview** = ``-1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_output_port_for_preview**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_output_port_for_preview**\ (\ )

Sets the output port index which will be showed for preview. If set to ``-1`` no port will be open for preview.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_clear_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **clear_default_input_values**\ (\ )

Clears the default input ports value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_port:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_default_input_port**\ (\ type\: :ref:`PortType<enum_VisualShaderNode_PortType>`\ ) |const|

Returns the input port which should be connected by default when this node is created as a result of dragging a connection from an existing node to the empty space on the graph.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>` **get_default_input_values**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns an :ref:`Array<class_Array>` containing default values for all of the input ports of the node in the form ``[index0, value0, index1, value1, ...]``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_get_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` **get_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|

Returns the default value of the input ``port``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_remove_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )

Removes the default value of the input ``port``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_default_input_values:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_default_input_values**\ (\ values\: :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\ )

Sets the default input ports values using an :ref:`Array<class_Array>` of the form ``[index0, value0, index1, value1, ...]``. For example: ``[0, Vector3(0, 0, 0), 1, Vector3(0, 0, 0)]``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_VisualShaderNode_method_set_input_port_default_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_input_port_default_value**\ (\ port\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>`, prev_value\: :ref:`Variant<class_Variant>` = null\ )

Sets the default ``value`` for the selected input ``port``.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
