classes/class_xrbodymodifier3d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/XRBodyModifier3D.xml.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D:

XRBodyModifier3D
================

**Experimental:** This class may be changed or removed in future versions.

**Inherits:** :ref:`SkeletonModifier3D<class_SkeletonModifier3D>` **<** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node for driving body meshes from :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` data.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This node uses body tracking data from a :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` to animate the skeleton of a body mesh.

This node positions itself at the :ref:`XRBodyTracker.JOINT_ROOT<class_XRBodyTracker_constant_JOINT_ROOT>` position and scales itself to :ref:`XRServer.world_scale<class_XRServer_property_world_scale>`. Adding the body model as a child of this node will result in the model being positioned and scaled correctly for XR experiences.

The body tracking position-data is scaled by :ref:`Skeleton3D.motion_scale<class_Skeleton3D_property_motion_scale>` when applied to the skeleton, which can be used to adjust the tracked body to match the scale of the body model.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`XR documentation index <../tutorials/xr/index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                               | :ref:`body_tracker<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_tracker>`           | ``&"/user/body"`` |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
   | |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] | :ref:`body_update<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_update>`             | ``7``             |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
   | :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>`               | :ref:`bone_update<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_bone_update>`             | ``0``             |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                           | :ref:`show_when_tracked<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_show_when_tracked>` | ``true``          |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

flags **BodyUpdate**:

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_UPPER_BODY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_UPPER_BODY** = ``1``

The skeleton's upper body joints are updated.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_LOWER_BODY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_LOWER_BODY** = ``2``

The skeleton's lower body joints are updated.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_HANDS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_HANDS** = ``4``

The skeleton's hand joints are updated.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **BoneUpdate**:

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_FULL:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_FULL** = ``0``

The skeleton's bones are fully updated (both position and rotation) to match the tracked bones.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_ROTATION_ONLY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_ROTATION_ONLY** = ``1``

The skeleton's bones are only rotated to align with the tracked bones, preserving bone length.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_MAX** = ``2``

Represents the size of the :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` enum.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_tracker:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **body_tracker** = ``&"/user/body"``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_body_tracker**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_body_tracker**\ (\ )

The name of the :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` registered with :ref:`XRServer<class_XRServer>` to obtain the body tracking data from.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

|bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] **body_update** = ``7``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_body_update**\ (\ value\: |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\]\ )
- |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] **get_body_update**\ (\ )

Specifies the body parts to update.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_bone_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **bone_update** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_update**\ (\ value\: :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>`\ )
- :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **get_bone_update**\ (\ )

Specifies the type of updates to perform on the bones.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_show_when_tracked:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **show_when_tracked** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_show_when_tracked**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_show_when_tracked**\ (\ )

If true then the nodes visibility is determined by whether tracking data is available.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (6118592)

classes/class_xrbodymodifier3d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/XRBodyModifier3D.xml.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D:

XRBodyModifier3D
================

**Experimental:** This class may be changed or removed in future versions.

**Inherits:** :ref:`SkeletonModifier3D<class_SkeletonModifier3D>` **<** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node for driving body meshes from :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` data.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This node uses body tracking data from an :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` to pose the skeleton of a body mesh.

Positioning of the body is performed by creating an :ref:`XRNode3D<class_XRNode3D>` ancestor of the body mesh driven by the same :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>`.

The body tracking position-data is scaled by :ref:`Skeleton3D.motion_scale<class_Skeleton3D_property_motion_scale>` when applied to the skeleton, which can be used to adjust the tracked body to match the scale of the body model.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`XR documentation index <../tutorials/xr/index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                               | :ref:`body_tracker<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_tracker>` | ``&"/user/body_tracker"`` |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
   | |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] | :ref:`body_update<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_update>`   | ``7``                     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
   | :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>`               | :ref:`bone_update<class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_bone_update>`   | ``0``                     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

flags **BodyUpdate**:

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_UPPER_BODY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_UPPER_BODY** = ``1``

The skeleton's upper body joints are updated.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_LOWER_BODY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_LOWER_BODY** = ``2``

The skeleton's lower body joints are updated.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BODY_UPDATE_HANDS:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>` **BODY_UPDATE_HANDS** = ``4``

The skeleton's hand joints are updated.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **BoneUpdate**:

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_FULL:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_FULL** = ``0``

The skeleton's bones are fully updated (both position and rotation) to match the tracked bones.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_ROTATION_ONLY:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_ROTATION_ONLY** = ``1``

The skeleton's bones are only rotated to align with the tracked bones, preserving bone length.

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_constant_BONE_UPDATE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **BONE_UPDATE_MAX** = ``2``

Represents the size of the :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` enum.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_tracker:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **body_tracker** = ``&"/user/body_tracker"``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_body_tracker**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_body_tracker**\ (\ )

The name of the :ref:`XRBodyTracker<class_XRBodyTracker>` registered with :ref:`XRServer<class_XRServer>` to obtain the body tracking data from.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_body_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

|bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] **body_update** = ``7``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_body_update**\ (\ value\: |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\]\ )
- |bitfield|\[:ref:`BodyUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BodyUpdate>`\] **get_body_update**\ (\ )

Specifies the body parts to update.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_XRBodyModifier3D_property_bone_update:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **bone_update** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_bone_update**\ (\ value\: :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>`\ )
- :ref:`BoneUpdate<enum_XRBodyModifier3D_BoneUpdate>` **get_bone_update**\ (\ )

Specifies the type of updates to perform on the bones.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
