classes/class_bone2d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/classes/Bone2D.xml.

.. _class_Bone2D:

Bone2D
======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A joint used with :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` to control and animate other nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A hierarchy of **Bone2D**\ s can be bound to a :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` to control and animate other :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` nodes.

You can use **Bone2D** and :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` nodes to animate 2D meshes created with the :ref:`Polygon2D<class_Polygon2D>` UV editor.

Each bone has a :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` transform that you can reset to with :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>`. These rest poses are relative to the bone's parent.

If in the editor, you can set the rest pose of an entire skeleton using a menu option, from the code, you need to iterate over the bones to set their individual rest poses.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` | ``Transform2D(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)`` |
   +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>` **(** **)**                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`get_autocalculate_length_and_angle<class_Bone2D_method_get_autocalculate_length_and_angle>` **(** **)** |const|                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`get_bone_angle<class_Bone2D_method_get_bone_angle>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`get_index_in_skeleton<class_Bone2D_method_get_index_in_skeleton>` **(** **)** |const|                                                          |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`get_length<class_Bone2D_method_get_length>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`get_skeleton_rest<class_Bone2D_method_get_skeleton_rest>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                  |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_autocalculate_length_and_angle<class_Bone2D_method_set_autocalculate_length_and_angle>` **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` auto_calculate **)** |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_bone_angle<class_Bone2D_method_set_bone_angle>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` angle **)**                                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_length<class_Bone2D_method_set_length>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` length **)**                                                       |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Bone2D_property_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **rest** = ``Transform2D(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_rest** **(** :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` value **)**
- :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_rest** **(** **)**

Rest transform of the bone. You can reset the node's transforms to this value using :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **apply_rest** **(** **)**

Stores the node's current transforms in :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_autocalculate_length_and_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_autocalculate_length_and_angle** **(** **)** |const|

Returns whether this **Bone2D** is going to autocalculate its length and bone angle using its first **Bone2D** child node, if one exists. If there are no **Bone2D** children, then it cannot autocalculate these values and will print a warning.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_bone_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bone_angle** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the angle of the bone in the **Bone2D**.

\ **Note:** This is different from the **Bone2D**'s rotation. The bone's angle is the rotation of the bone shown by the gizmo, which is unaffected by the **Bone2D**'s :ref:`Node2D.transform<class_Node2D_property_transform>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_index_in_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_index_in_skeleton** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the node's index as part of the entire skeleton. See :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_length** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the length of the bone in the **Bone2D** node.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_skeleton_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_skeleton_rest** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the node's :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` ``Transform2D`` if it doesn't have a parent, or its rest pose relative to its parent.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_autocalculate_length_and_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_autocalculate_length_and_angle** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` auto_calculate **)**

When set to ``true``, the **Bone2D** node will attempt to automatically calculate the bone angle and length using the first child **Bone2D** node, if one exists. If none exist, the **Bone2D** cannot automatically calculate these values and will print a warning.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_bone_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_bone_angle** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` angle **)**

Sets the bone angle for the **Bone2D**. This is typically set to the rotation from the **Bone2D** to a child **Bone2D** node.

\ **Note:** **Note:** This is different from the **Bone2D**'s rotation. The bone's angle is the rotation of the bone shown by the gizmo, which is unaffected by the **Bone2D**'s :ref:`Node2D.transform<class_Node2D_property_transform>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_length** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` length **)**

Sets the length of the bone in the **Bone2D**.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current 4.1 branch (1ef40f4)

classes/class_bone2d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/4.1/doc/classes/Bone2D.xml.

.. _class_Bone2D:

Bone2D
======

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A joint used with :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` to control and animate other nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A hierarchy of **Bone2D**\ s can be bound to a :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` to control and animate other :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` nodes.

You can use **Bone2D** and :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>` nodes to animate 2D meshes created with the :ref:`Polygon2D<class_Polygon2D>` UV editor.

Each bone has a :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` transform that you can reset to with :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>`. These rest poses are relative to the bone's parent.

If in the editor, you can set the rest pose of an entire skeleton using a menu option, from the code, you need to iterate over the bones to set their individual rest poses.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` | ``Transform2D(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)`` |
   +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>` **(** **)**                                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`get_autocalculate_length_and_angle<class_Bone2D_method_get_autocalculate_length_and_angle>` **(** **)** |const|                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`get_bone_angle<class_Bone2D_method_get_bone_angle>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                        |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`get_index_in_skeleton<class_Bone2D_method_get_index_in_skeleton>` **(** **)** |const|                                                          |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`get_length<class_Bone2D_method_get_length>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`get_skeleton_rest<class_Bone2D_method_get_skeleton_rest>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                  |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_autocalculate_length_and_angle<class_Bone2D_method_set_autocalculate_length_and_angle>` **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` auto_calculate **)** |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_bone_angle<class_Bone2D_method_set_bone_angle>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` angle **)**                                                |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                                  | :ref:`set_length<class_Bone2D_method_set_length>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` length **)**                                                       |
   +---------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_Bone2D_property_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **rest** = ``Transform2D(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_rest** **(** :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` value **)**
- :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_rest** **(** **)**

Rest transform of the bone. You can reset the node's transforms to this value using :ref:`apply_rest<class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_Bone2D_method_apply_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **apply_rest** **(** **)**

Resets the bone to the rest pose. This is equivalent to setting :ref:`Node2D.transform<class_Node2D_property_transform>` to :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_autocalculate_length_and_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_autocalculate_length_and_angle** **(** **)** |const|

Returns whether this **Bone2D** is going to autocalculate its length and bone angle using its first **Bone2D** child node, if one exists. If there are no **Bone2D** children, then it cannot autocalculate these values and will print a warning.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_bone_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_bone_angle** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the angle of the bone in the **Bone2D**.

\ **Note:** This is different from the **Bone2D**'s rotation. The bone's angle is the rotation of the bone shown by the gizmo, which is unaffected by the **Bone2D**'s :ref:`Node2D.transform<class_Node2D_property_transform>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_index_in_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_index_in_skeleton** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the node's index as part of the entire skeleton. See :ref:`Skeleton2D<class_Skeleton2D>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_length** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the length of the bone in the **Bone2D** node.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_get_skeleton_rest:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_skeleton_rest** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the node's :ref:`rest<class_Bone2D_property_rest>` ``Transform2D`` if it doesn't have a parent, or its rest pose relative to its parent.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_autocalculate_length_and_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_autocalculate_length_and_angle** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` auto_calculate **)**

When set to ``true``, the **Bone2D** node will attempt to automatically calculate the bone angle and length using the first child **Bone2D** node, if one exists. If none exist, the **Bone2D** cannot automatically calculate these values and will print a warning.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_bone_angle:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_bone_angle** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` angle **)**

Sets the bone angle for the **Bone2D**. This is typically set to the rotation from the **Bone2D** to a child **Bone2D** node.

\ **Note:** **Note:** This is different from the **Bone2D**'s rotation. The bone's angle is the rotation of the bone shown by the gizmo, which is unaffected by the **Bone2D**'s :ref:`Node2D.transform<class_Node2D_property_transform>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_Bone2D_method_set_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_length** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` length **)**

Sets the length of the bone in the **Bone2D**.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
