classes/class_animationnodeanimation.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Redot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/Redot-Engine/redot-engine/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/Redot-Engine/redot-engine/tree/master/doc/classes/AnimationNodeAnimation.xml.

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation:

AnimationNodeAnimation
======================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AnimationRootNode<class_AnimationRootNode>` **<** :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An input animation for an :ref:`AnimationNodeBlendTree<class_AnimationNodeBlendTree>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A resource to add to an :ref:`AnimationNodeBlendTree<class_AnimationNodeBlendTree>`. Only has one output port using the :ref:`animation<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>` property. Used as an input for :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>`\ s that blend animations together.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using AnimationTree <../tutorials/animation/animation_tree>`

- `3D Platformer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2748>`__

- `Third Person Shooter (TPS) Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2710>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                   | :ref:`animation<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>`                     | ``&""``   |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>`              | :ref:`loop_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`                     |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` | :ref:`play_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode>`                     | ``0``     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`start_offset<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset>`               |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`stretch_time_scale<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale>`   |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`         |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` | ``false`` |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **PlayMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>`

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_constant_PLAY_MODE_FORWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **PLAY_MODE_FORWARD** = ``0``

Plays animation in forward direction.

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_constant_PLAY_MODE_BACKWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **PLAY_MODE_BACKWARD** = ``1``

Plays animation in backward direction.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **animation** = ``&""`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_animation**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_animation**\ (\ )

Animation to use as an output. It is one of the animations provided by :ref:`AnimationTree.anim_player<class_AnimationTree_property_anim_player>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>` **loop_mode** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>` **get_loop_mode**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, override the loop settings of the original :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource with the value.

\ **Note:** If the :ref:`Animation.loop_mode<class_Animation_property_loop_mode>` isn't set to looping, the :ref:`Animation.track_set_interpolation_loop_wrap<class_Animation_method_track_set_interpolation_loop_wrap>` option will not be respected. If you cannot get the expected behavior, consider duplicating the :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource and changing the loop settings.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **play_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_play_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>`\ )
- :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **get_play_mode**\ (\ )

Determines the playback direction of the animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **start_offset** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_start_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_start_offset**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, offset the start position of the animation.

This is useful for adjusting which foot steps first in 3D walking animations.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stretch_time_scale** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_time_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stretching_time_scale**\ (\ )

If ``true``, scales the time so that the length specified in :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>` is one cycle.

This is useful for matching the periods of walking and running animations.

If ``false``, the original animation length is respected. If you set the loop to :ref:`loop_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`, the animation will loop in :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **timeline_length** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_timeline_length**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_timeline_length**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, offset the start position of the animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **use_custom_timeline** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_use_custom_timeline**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_using_custom_timeline**\ (\ )

If ``true``, :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>` provides an animation based on the :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource with some parameters adjusted.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (9767837)

classes/class_animationnodeanimation.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Redot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/Redot-Engine/redot-engine/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/Redot-Engine/redot-engine/tree/master/doc/classes/AnimationNodeAnimation.xml.

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation:

AnimationNodeAnimation
======================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AnimationRootNode<class_AnimationRootNode>` **<** :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An input animation for an :ref:`AnimationNodeBlendTree<class_AnimationNodeBlendTree>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A resource to add to an :ref:`AnimationNodeBlendTree<class_AnimationNodeBlendTree>`. Only has one output port using the :ref:`animation<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>` property. Used as an input for :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>`\ s that blend animations together.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using AnimationTree <../tutorials/animation/animation_tree>`

- `3D Platformer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2748>`__

- `Third Person Shooter (TPS) Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2710>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`advance_on_start<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_advance_on_start>`       | ``false`` |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`                   | :ref:`animation<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>`                     | ``&""``   |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>`              | :ref:`loop_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`                     |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` | :ref:`play_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode>`                     | ``0``     |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`start_offset<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset>`               |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`stretch_time_scale<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale>`   |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                             | :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`         |           |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                               | :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` | ``false`` |
   +-------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **PlayMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>`

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_constant_PLAY_MODE_FORWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **PLAY_MODE_FORWARD** = ``0``

Plays animation in forward direction.

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_constant_PLAY_MODE_BACKWARD:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **PLAY_MODE_BACKWARD** = ``1``

Plays animation in backward direction.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_advance_on_start:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **advance_on_start** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_advance_on_start>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_advance_on_start**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_advance_on_start**\ (\ )

If ``true``, on receiving a request to play an animation from the start, the first frame is not drawn, but only processed, and playback starts from the next frame.

See also the notes of :ref:`AnimationPlayer.play<class_AnimationPlayer_method_play>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **animation** = ``&""`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_animation**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_animation**\ (\ )

Animation to use as an output. It is one of the animations provided by :ref:`AnimationTree.anim_player<class_AnimationTree_property_anim_player>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>` **loop_mode** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_loop_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LoopMode<enum_Animation_LoopMode>` **get_loop_mode**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, override the loop settings of the original :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource with the value.

\ **Note:** If the :ref:`Animation.loop_mode<class_Animation_property_loop_mode>` isn't set to looping, the :ref:`Animation.track_set_interpolation_loop_wrap<class_Animation_method_track_set_interpolation_loop_wrap>` option will not be respected. If you cannot get the expected behavior, consider duplicating the :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource and changing the loop settings.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **play_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_play_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_play_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>`\ )
- :ref:`PlayMode<enum_AnimationNodeAnimation_PlayMode>` **get_play_mode**\ (\ )

Determines the playback direction of the animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **start_offset** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_start_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_start_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_start_offset**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, offset the start position of the animation.

This is useful for adjusting which foot steps first in 3D walking animations.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stretch_time_scale** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_stretch_time_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_time_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stretching_time_scale**\ (\ )

If ``true``, scales the time so that the length specified in :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>` is one cycle.

This is useful for matching the periods of walking and running animations.

If ``false``, the original animation length is respected. If you set the loop to :ref:`loop_mode<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_loop_mode>`, the animation will loop in :ref:`timeline_length<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **timeline_length** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_timeline_length>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_timeline_length**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_timeline_length**\ (\ )

If :ref:`use_custom_timeline<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>` is ``true``, offset the start position of the animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **use_custom_timeline** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimationNodeAnimation_property_use_custom_timeline>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_use_custom_timeline**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_using_custom_timeline**\ (\ )

If ``true``, :ref:`AnimationNode<class_AnimationNode>` provides an animation based on the :ref:`Animation<class_Animation>` resource with some parameters adjusted.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
