classes/class_navigationregion2d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/NavigationRegion2D.xml.

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D:

NavigationRegion2D
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A traversable 2D region that :ref:`NavigationAgent2D<class_NavigationAgent2D>`\ s can use for pathfinding.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A traversable 2D region based on a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` that :ref:`NavigationAgent2D<class_NavigationAgent2D>`\ s can use for pathfinding.

Two regions can be connected to each other if they share a similar edge. You can set the minimum distance between two vertices required to connect two edges by using :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_set_edge_connection_margin<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_set_edge_connection_margin>`.

\ **Note:** Overlapping two regions' navigation polygons is not enough for connecting two regions. They must share a similar edge.

The pathfinding cost of entering a region from another region can be controlled with the :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>` value.

\ **Note:** This value is not added to the path cost when the start position is already inside this region.

The pathfinding cost of traveling distances inside this region can be controlled with the :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>` multiplier.

\ **Note:** This node caches changes to its properties, so if you make changes to the underlying region :ref:`RID<class_RID>` in :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`, they will not be reflected in this node's properties.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using NavigationRegions <../tutorials/navigation/navigation_using_navigationregions>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>`         | ``1``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`constrain_avoidance<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_constrain_avoidance>`   | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`enabled<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enabled>`                           | ``true``  |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>`                     | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>`       | ``1``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` | :ref:`navigation_polygon<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_polygon>`     |           |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>`                   | ``1.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`use_edge_connections<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_use_edge_connections>` | ``true``  |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`bake_navigation_polygon<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_bake_navigation_polygon>` **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` on_thread=true **)**                                  |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`get_avoidance_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_avoidance_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|                          |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`get_navigation_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|                        |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_navigation_map<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_map>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                           |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_region_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_region_rid>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                   |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                                 |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_avoidance_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_avoidance_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**   |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_navigation_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)** |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_navigation_map<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_map>` **(** :ref:`RID<class_RID>` navigation_map **)**                                              |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_signal_bake_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**bake_finished** **(** **)**

Emitted when a navigation polygon bake operation is completed.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_signal_navigation_polygon_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**navigation_polygon_changed** **(** **)**

Emitted when the used navigation polygon is replaced or changes to the internals of the current navigation polygon are committed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **avoidance_layers** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_avoidance_layers** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_avoidance_layers** **(** **)**

A bitfield determining all avoidance layers for the avoidance constrain.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_constrain_avoidance:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **constrain_avoidance** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constrain_avoidance** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_constrain_avoidance** **(** **)**

If ``true`` constraints avoidance agent's with an avoidance mask bit that matches with a bit of the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` to the navigation polygon. Due to each navigation polygon outline creating an obstacle and each polygon edge creating an avoidance line constrain keep the navigation polygon shape as simple as possible for performance.

\ **Experimental:** This is an experimental feature and should not be used in production as agent's can get stuck on the navigation polygon corners and edges especially at high frame rate.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **enabled** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_enabled** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_enabled** **(** **)**

Determines if the **NavigationRegion2D** is enabled or disabled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **enter_cost** = ``0.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_enter_cost** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_enter_cost** **(** **)**

When pathfinding enters this region's navigation mesh from another regions navigation mesh the :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>` value is added to the path distance for determining the shortest path.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **navigation_layers** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_navigation_layers** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_navigation_layers** **(** **)**

A bitfield determining all navigation layers the region belongs to. These navigation layers can be checked upon when requesting a path with :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_get_path<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_get_path>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` **navigation_polygon**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_navigation_polygon** **(** :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` value **)**
- :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` **get_navigation_polygon** **(** **)**

The :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource to use.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **travel_cost** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_travel_cost** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_travel_cost** **(** **)**

When pathfinding moves inside this region's navigation mesh the traveled distances are multiplied with :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>` for determining the shortest path.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_use_edge_connections:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **use_edge_connections** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_use_edge_connections** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_use_edge_connections** **(** **)**

If enabled the navigation region will use edge connections to connect with other navigation regions within proximity of the navigation map edge connection margin.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_bake_navigation_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **bake_navigation_polygon** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` on_thread=true **)**

Bakes the :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>`. If ``on_thread`` is set to ``true`` (default), the baking is done on a separate thread.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_avoidance_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_avoidance_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|

Returns whether or not the specified layer of the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` bitmask is enabled, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_navigation_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|

Returns whether or not the specified layer of the :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>` bitmask is enabled, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_map:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_navigation_map** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the current navigation map :ref:`RID<class_RID>` used by this region.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_region_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_region_rid** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of this region on the :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`.

\ *Deprecated.* Use :ref:`get_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_rid** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of this region on the :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`. Combined with :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_get_closest_point_owner<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_get_closest_point_owner>` can be used to identify the **NavigationRegion2D** closest to a point on the merged navigation map.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_avoidance_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_avoidance_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**

Based on ``value``, enables or disables the specified layer in the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` bitmask, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_navigation_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**

Based on ``value``, enables or disables the specified layer in the :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>` bitmask, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_map:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_navigation_map** **(** :ref:`RID<class_RID>` navigation_map **)**

Sets the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of the navigation map this region should use. By default the region will automatically join the :ref:`World2D<class_World2D>` default navigation map so this function is only required to override the default map.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (4e990cd)

classes/class_navigationregion2d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/NavigationRegion2D.xml.

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D:

NavigationRegion2D
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A traversable 2D region that :ref:`NavigationAgent2D<class_NavigationAgent2D>`\ s can use for pathfinding.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A traversable 2D region based on a :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` that :ref:`NavigationAgent2D<class_NavigationAgent2D>`\ s can use for pathfinding.

Two regions can be connected to each other if they share a similar edge. You can set the minimum distance between two vertices required to connect two edges by using :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_set_edge_connection_margin<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_set_edge_connection_margin>`.

\ **Note:** Overlapping two regions' navigation polygons is not enough for connecting two regions. They must share a similar edge.

The pathfinding cost of entering a region from another region can be controlled with the :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>` value.

\ **Note:** This value is not added to the path cost when the start position is already inside this region.

The pathfinding cost of traveling distances inside this region can be controlled with the :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>` multiplier.

\ **Note:** This node caches changes to its properties, so if you make changes to the underlying region :ref:`RID<class_RID>` in :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`, they will not be reflected in this node's properties.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using NavigationRegions <../tutorials/navigation/navigation_using_navigationregions>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>`         | ``1``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`constrain_avoidance<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_constrain_avoidance>`   | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`enabled<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enabled>`                           | ``true``  |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>`                     | ``0.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                             | :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>`       | ``1``     |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` | :ref:`navigation_polygon<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_polygon>`     |           |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                         | :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>`                   | ``1.0``   |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                           | :ref:`use_edge_connections<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_use_edge_connections>` | ``true``  |
   +---------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`bake_navigation_polygon<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_bake_navigation_polygon>` **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` on_thread=true **)**                                  |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`get_avoidance_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_avoidance_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|                          |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`get_navigation_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|                        |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_navigation_map<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_map>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                           |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_region_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_region_rid>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                   |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                                 |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`is_baking<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_is_baking>` **(** **)** |const|                                                                                             |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_avoidance_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_avoidance_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**   |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_navigation_layer_value<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_layer_value>` **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)** |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | void                    | :ref:`set_navigation_map<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_map>` **(** :ref:`RID<class_RID>` navigation_map **)**                                              |
   +-------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_signal_bake_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**bake_finished** **(** **)**

Emitted when a navigation polygon bake operation is completed.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_signal_navigation_polygon_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**navigation_polygon_changed** **(** **)**

Emitted when the used navigation polygon is replaced or changes to the internals of the current navigation polygon are committed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **avoidance_layers** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_avoidance_layers** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_avoidance_layers** **(** **)**

A bitfield determining all avoidance layers for the avoidance constrain.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_constrain_avoidance:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **constrain_avoidance** = ``false``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_constrain_avoidance** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_constrain_avoidance** **(** **)**

If ``true`` constraints avoidance agent's with an avoidance mask bit that matches with a bit of the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` to the navigation polygon. Due to each navigation polygon outline creating an obstacle and each polygon edge creating an avoidance line constrain keep the navigation polygon shape as simple as possible for performance.

\ **Experimental:** This is an experimental feature and should not be used in production as agent's can get stuck on the navigation polygon corners and edges especially at high frame rate.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **enabled** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_enabled** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_enabled** **(** **)**

Determines if the **NavigationRegion2D** is enabled or disabled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **enter_cost** = ``0.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_enter_cost** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_enter_cost** **(** **)**

When pathfinding enters this region's navigation mesh from another regions navigation mesh the :ref:`enter_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_enter_cost>` value is added to the path distance for determining the shortest path.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **navigation_layers** = ``1``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_navigation_layers** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` value **)**
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_navigation_layers** **(** **)**

A bitfield determining all navigation layers the region belongs to. These navigation layers can be checked upon when requesting a path with :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_get_path<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_get_path>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` **navigation_polygon**

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_navigation_polygon** **(** :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` value **)**
- :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` **get_navigation_polygon** **(** **)**

The :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` resource to use.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **travel_cost** = ``1.0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_travel_cost** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` value **)**
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_travel_cost** **(** **)**

When pathfinding moves inside this region's navigation mesh the traveled distances are multiplied with :ref:`travel_cost<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_travel_cost>` for determining the shortest path.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_property_use_edge_connections:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **use_edge_connections** = ``true``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- void **set_use_edge_connections** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_use_edge_connections** **(** **)**

If enabled the navigation region will use edge connections to connect with other navigation regions within proximity of the navigation map edge connection margin.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_bake_navigation_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **bake_navigation_polygon** **(** :ref:`bool<class_bool>` on_thread=true **)**

Bakes the :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>`. If ``on_thread`` is set to ``true`` (default), the baking is done on a separate thread.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_avoidance_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_avoidance_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|

Returns whether or not the specified layer of the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` bitmask is enabled, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_navigation_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number **)** |const|

Returns whether or not the specified layer of the :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>` bitmask is enabled, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_navigation_map:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_navigation_map** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the current navigation map :ref:`RID<class_RID>` used by this region.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_region_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_region_rid** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of this region on the :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`.

\ *Deprecated.* Use :ref:`get_rid<class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_get_rid:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_rid** **(** **)** |const|

Returns the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of this region on the :ref:`NavigationServer2D<class_NavigationServer2D>`. Combined with :ref:`NavigationServer2D.map_get_closest_point_owner<class_NavigationServer2D_method_map_get_closest_point_owner>` can be used to identify the **NavigationRegion2D** closest to a point on the merged navigation map.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_is_baking:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_baking** **(** **)** |const|

Returns ``true`` when the :ref:`NavigationPolygon<class_NavigationPolygon>` is being baked on a background thread.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_avoidance_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_avoidance_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**

Based on ``value``, enables or disables the specified layer in the :ref:`avoidance_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_avoidance_layers>` bitmask, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_layer_value:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_navigation_layer_value** **(** :ref:`int<class_int>` layer_number, :ref:`bool<class_bool>` value **)**

Based on ``value``, enables or disables the specified layer in the :ref:`navigation_layers<class_NavigationRegion2D_property_navigation_layers>` bitmask, given a ``layer_number`` between 1 and 32.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_NavigationRegion2D_method_set_navigation_map:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

void **set_navigation_map** **(** :ref:`RID<class_RID>` navigation_map **)**

Sets the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` of the navigation map this region should use. By default the region will automatically join the :ref:`World2D<class_World2D>` default navigation map so this function is only required to override the default map.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
