classes/class_collisionpolygon3d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CollisionPolygon3D.xml.

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D:

CollisionPolygon3D
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node that provides a thickened polygon shape (a prism) to a :ref:`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>` parent.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A node that provides a thickened polygon shape (a prism) to a :ref:`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>` parent and allows to edit it. The polygon can be concave or convex. This can give a detection shape to an :ref:`Area3D<class_Area3D>` or turn :ref:`PhysicsBody3D<class_PhysicsBody3D>` into a solid object.

\ **Warning:** A non-uniformly scaled :ref:`CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>` will likely not behave as expected. Make sure to keep its scale the same on all axes and adjust its shape resource instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>`                           | :ref:`debug_color<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color>` | ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)``    |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                             | :ref:`debug_fill<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill>`   | ``true``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                           | :ref:`depth<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth>`             | ``1.0``                  |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                             | :ref:`disabled<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled>`       | ``false``                |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                           | :ref:`margin<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin>`           | ``0.04``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` | :ref:`polygon<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon>`         | ``PackedVector2Array()`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **debug_color** = ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_debug_color**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Color<class_Color>`\ )
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_debug_color**\ (\ )

The collision shape color that is displayed in the editor, or in the running project if **Debug > Visible Collision Shapes** is checked at the top of the editor.

\ **Note:** The default value is :ref:`ProjectSettings.debug/shapes/collision/shape_color<class_ProjectSettings_property_debug/shapes/collision/shape_color>`. The ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default debug color.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **debug_fill** = ``true`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_enable_debug_fill**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_enable_debug_fill**\ (\ )

If ``true``, when the shape is displayed, it will show a solid fill color in addition to its wireframe.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **depth** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_depth**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_depth**\ (\ )

Length that the resulting collision extends in either direction perpendicular to its 2D polygon.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **disabled** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_disabled**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_disabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, no collision will be produced.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **margin** = ``0.04`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_margin**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_margin**\ (\ )

The collision margin for the generated :ref:`Shape3D<class_Shape3D>`. See :ref:`Shape3D.margin<class_Shape3D_property_margin>` for more details.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` **polygon** = ``PackedVector2Array()`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_polygon**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>`\ )
- :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` **get_polygon**\ (\ )

Array of vertices which define the 2D polygon in the local XY plane.

**Note:** The returned array is *copied* and any changes to it will not update the original property value. See :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` for more details.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (42c7f14)

classes/class_collisionpolygon3d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CollisionPolygon3D.xml.

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D:

CollisionPolygon3D
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A node that provides a thickened polygon shape (a prism) to a :ref:`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>` parent.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A node that provides a thickened polygon shape (a prism) to a :ref:`CollisionObject3D<class_CollisionObject3D>` parent and allows to edit it. The polygon can be concave or convex. This can give a detection shape to an :ref:`Area3D<class_Area3D>` or turn :ref:`PhysicsBody3D<class_PhysicsBody3D>` into a solid object.

\ **Warning:** A non-uniformly scaled :ref:`CollisionShape3D<class_CollisionShape3D>` will likely not behave as expected. Make sure to keep its scale the same on all axes and adjust its shape resource instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>`                           | :ref:`debug_color<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color>` | ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)``    |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                             | :ref:`debug_fill<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill>`   | ``true``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                           | :ref:`depth<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth>`             | ``1.0``                  |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                             | :ref:`disabled<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled>`       | ``false``                |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                           | :ref:`margin<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin>`           | ``0.04``                 |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
   | :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` | :ref:`polygon<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon>`         | ``PackedVector2Array()`` |
   +-----------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **debug_color** = ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_color>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_debug_color**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Color<class_Color>`\ )
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_debug_color**\ (\ )

The collision shape color that is displayed in the editor, or in the running project if **Debug > Visible Collision Shapes** is checked at the top of the editor.

\ **Note:** The default value is :ref:`ProjectSettings.debug/shapes/collision/shape_color<class_ProjectSettings_property_debug/shapes/collision/shape_color>`. The ``Color(0, 0, 0, 0)`` value documented here is a placeholder, and not the actual default debug color.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **debug_fill** = ``true`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_debug_fill>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_enable_debug_fill**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_enable_debug_fill**\ (\ )

If ``true``, when the shape is displayed, it will show a solid fill color in addition to its wireframe.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **depth** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_depth>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_depth**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_depth**\ (\ )

Length that the resulting collision extends in either direction perpendicular to its 2D polygon.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **disabled** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_disabled>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_disabled**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_disabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, no collision will be produced. This property should be changed with :ref:`Object.set_deferred()<class_Object_method_set_deferred>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **margin** = ``0.04`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_margin>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_margin**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_margin**\ (\ )

The collision margin for the generated :ref:`Shape3D<class_Shape3D>`. See :ref:`Shape3D.margin<class_Shape3D_property_margin>` for more details.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` **polygon** = ``PackedVector2Array()`` :ref:`🔗<class_CollisionPolygon3D_property_polygon>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_polygon**\ (\ value\: :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>`\ )
- :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` **get_polygon**\ (\ )

Array of vertices which define the 2D polygon in the local XY plane.

**Note:** The returned array is *copied* and any changes to it will not update the original property value. See :ref:`PackedVector2Array<class_PackedVector2Array>` for more details.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
