classes/class_inputevent.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputEvent.xml.

.. _class_InputEvent:

InputEvent
==========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`, :ref:`InputEventFromWindow<class_InputEventFromWindow>`, :ref:`InputEventJoypadButton<class_InputEventJoypadButton>`, :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>`, :ref:`InputEventMIDI<class_InputEventMIDI>`, :ref:`InputEventShortcut<class_InputEventShortcut>`

Abstract base class for input events.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Abstract base class of all types of input events. See :ref:`Node._input<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using InputEvent <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent>`

- :doc:`Viewport and canvas transforms <../tutorials/2d/2d_transforms>`

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/515>`__

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/676>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`device<class_InputEvent_property_device>` | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`accumulate<class_InputEvent_method_accumulate>`\ (\ with_event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`         | :ref:`as_text<class_InputEvent_method_as_text>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`           | :ref:`get_action_strength<class_InputEvent_method_get_action_strength>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                           |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action<class_InputEvent_method_is_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                                               |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, allow_echo\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_released<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_released>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                             |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_type<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_type>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                  |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_canceled<class_InputEvent_method_is_canceled>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_echo<class_InputEvent_method_is_echo>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_match<class_InputEvent_method_is_match>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = true\ ) |const|                                                                   |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                          |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_released<class_InputEvent_method_is_released>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` | :ref:`xformed_by<class_InputEvent_method_xformed_by>`\ (\ xform\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`, local_ofs\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` = Vector2(0, 0)\ ) |const|                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEvent_property_device:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **device** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_device**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_device**\ (\ )

The event's device ID.

\ **Note:** This device ID will always be ``-1`` for emulated mouse input from a touchscreen. This can be used to distinguish emulated mouse input from physical mouse input.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_InputEvent_method_accumulate:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **accumulate**\ (\ with_event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )

Returns ``true`` if the given input event and this input event can be added together (only for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>`).

The given input event's position, global position and speed will be copied. The resulting ``relative`` is a sum of both events. Both events' modifiers have to be identical.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_as_text:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **as_text**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns a :ref:`String<class_String>` representation of the event.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_get_action_strength:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_action_strength**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns a value between 0.0 and 1.0 depending on the given actions' state. Useful for getting the value of events of type :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event matches a pre-defined action of any type.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_pressed**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, allow_echo\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the given action is being pressed (and is not an echo event for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` events, unless ``allow_echo`` is ``true``). Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

\ **Note:** Due to keyboard ghosting, :ref:`is_action_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed>` may return ``false`` even if one of the action's keys is pressed. See `Input examples <../tutorials/inputs/input_examples.html#keyboard-events>`__ in the documentation for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_released:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_released**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the given action is released (i.e. not pressed). Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_type:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_type**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event's type is one that can be assigned to an input action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_canceled:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_canceled**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event has been canceled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_echo:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_echo**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is an echo event (only for events of type :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>`). Any other event type returns ``false``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_match:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_match**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = true\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the specified ``event`` matches this event. Only valid for action events i.e key (:ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>`), button (:ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` or :ref:`InputEventJoypadButton<class_InputEventJoypadButton>`), axis :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` or action (:ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`) events.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_pressed**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is pressed. Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

\ **Note:** Due to keyboard ghosting, :ref:`is_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed>` may return ``false`` even if one of the action's keys is pressed. See `Input examples <../tutorials/inputs/input_examples.html#keyboard-events>`__ in the documentation for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_released:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_released**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is released. Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_xformed_by:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **xformed_by**\ (\ xform\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`, local_ofs\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` = Vector2(0, 0)\ ) |const|

Returns a copy of the given input event which has been offset by ``local_ofs`` and transformed by ``xform``. Relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>`, :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>`, :ref:`InputEventScreenTouch<class_InputEventScreenTouch>`, :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`, :ref:`InputEventMagnifyGesture<class_InputEventMagnifyGesture>` and :ref:`InputEventPanGesture<class_InputEventPanGesture>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (29b3d9e)

classes/class_inputevent.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputEvent.xml.

.. _class_InputEvent:

InputEvent
==========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`, :ref:`InputEventFromWindow<class_InputEventFromWindow>`, :ref:`InputEventJoypadButton<class_InputEventJoypadButton>`, :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>`, :ref:`InputEventMIDI<class_InputEventMIDI>`, :ref:`InputEventShortcut<class_InputEventShortcut>`

Abstract base class for input events.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Abstract base class of all types of input events. See :ref:`Node._input<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using InputEvent <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent>`

- :doc:`Viewport and canvas transforms <../tutorials/2d/2d_transforms>`

- `2D Dodge The Creeps Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/515>`__

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/676>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`device<class_InputEvent_property_device>` | ``0`` |
   +-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`accumulate<class_InputEvent_method_accumulate>`\ (\ with_event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`         | :ref:`as_text<class_InputEvent_method_as_text>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`           | :ref:`get_action_strength<class_InputEvent_method_get_action_strength>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                           |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action<class_InputEvent_method_is_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                                               |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, allow_echo\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_released<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_released>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|                                             |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_action_type<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_type>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                  |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_canceled<class_InputEvent_method_is_canceled>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_echo<class_InputEvent_method_is_echo>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_match<class_InputEvent_method_is_match>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = true\ ) |const|                                                                   |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                          |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`             | :ref:`is_released<class_InputEvent_method_is_released>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                                                        |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` | :ref:`xformed_by<class_InputEvent_method_xformed_by>`\ (\ xform\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`, local_ofs\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` = Vector2(0, 0)\ ) |const|                                                |
   +-------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Constants
---------

.. _class_InputEvent_constant_DEVICE_ID_EMULATION:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**DEVICE_ID_EMULATION** = ``-1``

Device ID used for emulated mouse input from a touchscreen, or for emulated touch input from a mouse. This can be used to distinguish emulated mouse input from physical mouse input, or emulated touch input from physical touch input.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_InputEvent_property_device:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **device** = ``0``

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_device**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_device**\ (\ )

The event's device ID.

\ **Note:** :ref:`device<class_InputEvent_property_device>` can be negative for special use cases that don't refer to devices physically present on the system. See :ref:`DEVICE_ID_EMULATION<class_InputEvent_constant_DEVICE_ID_EMULATION>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_InputEvent_method_accumulate:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **accumulate**\ (\ with_event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )

Returns ``true`` if the given input event and this input event can be added together (only for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>`).

The given input event's position, global position and speed will be copied. The resulting ``relative`` is a sum of both events. Both events' modifiers have to be identical.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_as_text:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **as_text**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns a :ref:`String<class_String>` representation of the event.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_get_action_strength:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_action_strength**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns a value between 0.0 and 1.0 depending on the given actions' state. Useful for getting the value of events of type :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event matches a pre-defined action of any type.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_pressed**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, allow_echo\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the given action is being pressed (and is not an echo event for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` events, unless ``allow_echo`` is ``true``). Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

\ **Note:** Due to keyboard ghosting, :ref:`is_action_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_action_pressed>` may return ``false`` even if one of the action's keys is pressed. See `Input examples <../tutorials/inputs/input_examples.html#keyboard-events>`__ in the documentation for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_released:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_released**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the given action is released (i.e. not pressed). Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_action_type:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_action_type**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event's type is one that can be assigned to an input action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_canceled:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_canceled**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event has been canceled.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_echo:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_echo**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is an echo event (only for events of type :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>`). Any other event type returns ``false``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_match:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_match**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = true\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if the specified ``event`` matches this event. Only valid for action events i.e key (:ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>`), button (:ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` or :ref:`InputEventJoypadButton<class_InputEventJoypadButton>`), axis :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` or action (:ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`) events.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_pressed**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is pressed. Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

\ **Note:** Due to keyboard ghosting, :ref:`is_pressed<class_InputEvent_method_is_pressed>` may return ``false`` even if one of the action's keys is pressed. See `Input examples <../tutorials/inputs/input_examples.html#keyboard-events>`__ in the documentation for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_is_released:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_released**\ (\ ) |const|

Returns ``true`` if this input event is released. Not relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>` or :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputEvent_method_xformed_by:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` **xformed_by**\ (\ xform\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`, local_ofs\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` = Vector2(0, 0)\ ) |const|

Returns a copy of the given input event which has been offset by ``local_ofs`` and transformed by ``xform``. Relevant for events of type :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>`, :ref:`InputEventMouseMotion<class_InputEventMouseMotion>`, :ref:`InputEventScreenTouch<class_InputEventScreenTouch>`, :ref:`InputEventScreenDrag<class_InputEventScreenDrag>`, :ref:`InputEventMagnifyGesture<class_InputEventMagnifyGesture>` and :ref:`InputEventPanGesture<class_InputEventPanGesture>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
