classes/class_meshinstance2d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/MeshInstance2D.xml.

.. _class_MeshInstance2D:

MeshInstance2D
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Node used for displaying a :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` in 2D.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Node used for displaying a :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` in 2D. A **MeshInstance2D** can be automatically created from an existing :ref:`Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>` via a tool in the editor toolbar. Select the :ref:`Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>` node, then choose **Sprite2D > Convert to MeshInstance2D** at the top of the 2D editor viewport.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`2D meshes <../tutorials/2d/2d_meshes>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>`           | :ref:`mesh<class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh>`       |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`texture<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>` |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_signal_texture_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**texture_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_signal_texture_changed>`

Emitted when the :ref:`texture<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>` is changed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` **mesh** :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mesh**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>`\ )
- :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` **get_mesh**\ (\ )

The :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` that will be drawn by the **MeshInstance2D**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture** :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture**\ (\ )

The :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` that will be used if using the default :ref:`CanvasItemMaterial<class_CanvasItemMaterial>`. Can be accessed as ``TEXTURE`` in CanvasItem shader.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (f0aeea2)

classes/class_meshinstance2d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/MeshInstance2D.xml.

.. _class_MeshInstance2D:

MeshInstance2D
==============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Node2D<class_Node2D>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Node used for displaying a :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` in 2D.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Node used for displaying a :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` in 2D. This can be faster to render compared to displaying a :ref:`Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>` node with large transparent areas, especially if the node takes up a lot of space on screen at high viewport resolutions. This is because using a mesh designed to fit the sprite's opaque areas will reduce GPU fill rate utilization (at the cost of increased vertex processing utilization).

When a :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` has to be instantiated more than thousands of times close to each other, consider using a :ref:`MultiMesh<class_MultiMesh>` in a :ref:`MultiMeshInstance2D<class_MultiMeshInstance2D>` instead.

A **MeshInstance2D** can be created from an existing :ref:`Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>` via a tool in the editor toolbar. Select the :ref:`Sprite2D<class_Sprite2D>` node, then choose **Sprite2D > Convert to MeshInstance2D** at the top of the 2D editor viewport.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`2D meshes <../tutorials/2d/2d_meshes>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>`           | :ref:`mesh<class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh>`       |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` | :ref:`texture<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>` |
   +-----------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_signal_texture_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**texture_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_signal_texture_changed>`

Emitted when the :ref:`texture<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>` is changed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` **mesh** :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_property_mesh>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_mesh**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>`\ )
- :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` **get_mesh**\ (\ )

The :ref:`Mesh<class_Mesh>` that will be drawn by the **MeshInstance2D**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture** :ref:`🔗<class_MeshInstance2D_property_texture>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture**\ (\ )

The :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` that will be used if using the default :ref:`CanvasItemMaterial<class_CanvasItemMaterial>`. Can be accessed as ``TEXTURE`` in CanvasItem shader.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |required| replace:: :abbr:`required (This method is required to be overridden when extending its base class.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
