classes/class_flowcontainer.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/FlowContainer.xml.

.. _class_FlowContainer:

FlowContainer
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`HFlowContainer<class_HFlowContainer>`, :ref:`VFlowContainer<class_VFlowContainer>`

A container that arranges its child controls horizontally or vertically and wraps them around at the borders.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A container that arranges its child controls horizontally or vertically and wraps them around at the borders. This is similar to how text in a book wraps around when no more words can fit on a line.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using Containers <../tutorials/ui/gui_containers>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`                 | :ref:`alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`                     | ``0``     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` | :ref:`last_wrap_alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment>` | ``0``     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                                | :ref:`reverse_fill<class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill>`               | ``false`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                                | :ref:`vertical<class_FlowContainer_property_vertical>`                       | ``false`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`get_line_count<class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Theme Properties
----------------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`h_separation<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation>` | ``4`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`v_separation<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation>` | ``4`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **AlignmentMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_BEGIN** = ``0``

The child controls will be arranged at the beginning of the container, i.e. top if orientation is vertical, left if orientation is horizontal (right for RTL layout).

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_CENTER** = ``1``

The child controls will be centered in the container.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_END:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_END** = ``2``

The child controls will be arranged at the end of the container, i.e. bottom if orientation is vertical, right if orientation is horizontal (left for RTL layout).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **LastWrapAlignmentMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>`

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT** = ``0``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the previous row or column in accordance with :ref:`alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN** = ``1``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the beginning of the previous row or column.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER** = ``2``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the center of the previous row or column.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END** = ``3``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the end of the previous row or column.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **alignment** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_alignment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`\ )
- :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **get_alignment**\ (\ )

The alignment of the container's children (must be one of :ref:`ALIGNMENT_BEGIN<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN>`, :ref:`ALIGNMENT_CENTER<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_CENTER>`, or :ref:`ALIGNMENT_END<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_END>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **last_wrap_alignment** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_last_wrap_alignment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **get_last_wrap_alignment**\ (\ )

The wrap behavior of the last, partially filled row or column (must be one of :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT>`, :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN>`, :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER>`, or :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **reverse_fill** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_reverse_fill**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_reverse_fill**\ (\ )

If ``true``, reverses fill direction. Horizontal **FlowContainer**\ s will fill rows bottom to top, vertical **FlowContainer**\ s will fill columns right to left.

When using a vertical **FlowContainer** with a right to left :ref:`Control.layout_direction<class_Control_property_layout_direction>`, columns will fill left to right instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_vertical:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **vertical** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_vertical>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_vertical**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_vertical**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the **FlowContainer** will arrange its children vertically, rather than horizontally.

Can't be changed when using :ref:`HFlowContainer<class_HFlowContainer>` and :ref:`VFlowContainer<class_VFlowContainer>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_line_count**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count>`

Returns the current line count.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Theme Property Descriptions
---------------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`int<class_int>` **h_separation** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation>`

The horizontal separation of child nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`int<class_int>` **v_separation** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation>`

The vertical separation of child nodes.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

Clarify FlowContainer get_line_count explanation
Make it more obvious that it's not giving you the number of items in 
a line and avoid restating the name of the function as 
documentation.

classes/class_flowcontainer.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/FlowContainer.xml.

.. _class_FlowContainer:

FlowContainer
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

**Inherited By:** :ref:`HFlowContainer<class_HFlowContainer>`, :ref:`VFlowContainer<class_VFlowContainer>`

A container that arranges its child controls horizontally or vertically and wraps them around at the borders.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A container that arranges its child controls horizontally or vertically and wraps them around at the borders. This is similar to how text in a book wraps around when no more words can fit on a line.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Using Containers <../tutorials/ui/gui_containers>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`                 | :ref:`alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`                     | ``0``     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` | :ref:`last_wrap_alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment>` | ``0``     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                                | :ref:`reverse_fill<class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill>`               | ``false`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                                | :ref:`vertical<class_FlowContainer_property_vertical>`                       | ``false`` |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`get_line_count<class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Theme Properties
----------------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`h_separation<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation>` | ``4`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>` | :ref:`v_separation<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation>` | ``4`` |
   +-----------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **AlignmentMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_BEGIN** = ``0``

The child controls will be arranged at the beginning of the container, i.e. top if orientation is vertical, left if orientation is horizontal (right for RTL layout).

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_CENTER** = ``1``

The child controls will be centered in the container.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_END:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **ALIGNMENT_END** = ``2``

The child controls will be arranged at the end of the container, i.e. bottom if orientation is vertical, right if orientation is horizontal (left for RTL layout).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **LastWrapAlignmentMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>`

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT** = ``0``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the previous row or column in accordance with :ref:`alignment<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN** = ``1``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the beginning of the previous row or column.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER** = ``2``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the center of the previous row or column.

.. _class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END** = ``3``

The last partially filled row or column will wrap aligned to the end of the previous row or column.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **alignment** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_alignment>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_alignment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>`\ )
- :ref:`AlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_AlignmentMode>` **get_alignment**\ (\ )

The alignment of the container's children (must be one of :ref:`ALIGNMENT_BEGIN<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN>`, :ref:`ALIGNMENT_CENTER<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_CENTER>`, or :ref:`ALIGNMENT_END<class_FlowContainer_constant_ALIGNMENT_END>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **last_wrap_alignment** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_last_wrap_alignment>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_last_wrap_alignment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>`\ )
- :ref:`LastWrapAlignmentMode<enum_FlowContainer_LastWrapAlignmentMode>` **get_last_wrap_alignment**\ (\ )

The wrap behavior of the last, partially filled row or column (must be one of :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_INHERIT>`, :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_BEGIN>`, :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_CENTER>`, or :ref:`LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END<class_FlowContainer_constant_LAST_WRAP_ALIGNMENT_END>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **reverse_fill** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_reverse_fill>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_reverse_fill**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_reverse_fill**\ (\ )

If ``true``, reverses fill direction. Horizontal **FlowContainer**\ s will fill rows bottom to top, vertical **FlowContainer**\ s will fill columns right to left.

When using a vertical **FlowContainer** with a right to left :ref:`Control.layout_direction<class_Control_property_layout_direction>`, columns will fill left to right instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_property_vertical:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **vertical** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_property_vertical>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_vertical**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_vertical**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the **FlowContainer** will arrange its children vertically, rather than horizontally.

Can't be changed when using :ref:`HFlowContainer<class_HFlowContainer>` and :ref:`VFlowContainer<class_VFlowContainer>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **get_line_count**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_method_get_line_count>`

Returns the number of wrapped lines. (Not the number of items in a line.)

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Theme Property Descriptions
---------------------------

.. _class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`int<class_int>` **h_separation** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_h_separation>`

The horizontal separation of child nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation:

.. rst-class:: classref-themeproperty

:ref:`int<class_int>` **v_separation** = ``4`` :ref:`🔗<class_FlowContainer_theme_constant_v_separation>`

The vertical separation of child nodes.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
