tutorials/troubleshooting.rst, before:

.. _doc_troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
===============

This page lists common issues encountered when using Godot and possible solutions.

.. seealso::

    See :ref:`doc_using_the_web_editor` for caveats specific to the Web version
    of the Godot editor.

The editor runs slowly and uses all my CPU and GPU resources, making my computer noisy
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a known issue, especially on macOS since most Macs have Retina displays.
Due to Retina displays' higher pixel density, everything has to be rendered at a
higher resolution. This increases the load on the GPU and decreases perceived
performance.

There are several ways to improve performance and battery life:

- In 3D, click the **Perspective** button in the top left corner and enable
  **Half Resolution**. The 3D viewport will now be rendered at half resolution,
  which can be up to 4 times faster.
- Open the Editor Settings and increase the value of **Low Processor Mode Sleep (µsec)**
  to ``33000`` (30 FPS). This value determines the amount of *microseconds*
  between frames to render. Higher values will make the editor feel less reactive
  but will help decrease CPU and GPU usage significantly.
- If you have a node that causes the editor to redraw continuously (such as
  particles), hide it and show it using a script in the ``_ready()`` method.
  This way, it will be hidden in the editor but will still be visible in the
  running project.

The editor stutters and flickers on my variable refresh rate monitor (G-Sync/FreeSync)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a `known issue <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/38219>`__.
Variable refresh rate monitors need to adjust their gamma curves continuously to
emit a consistent amount of light over time. This can cause flicker to appear in
dark areas of the image when the refresh rate varies a lot, which occurs as
the Godot editor only redraws when necessary.

There are several workarounds for this:

- Enable **Interface > Editor > Update Continuously** in the Editor Settings. Keep in mind
  this will increase power usage and heat/noise emissions since the editor will
  now be rendering constantly, even if nothing has changed on screen. To
  alleviate this, you can increase **Low Processor Mode Sleep (µsec)** to
  ``33000`` (30 FPS) in the Editor Settings. This value determines the amount of
  *microseconds* between frames to render. Higher values will make the editor
  feel less reactive but will help decrease CPU and GPU usage significantly.
- Alternatively, disable variable refresh rate on your monitor or in the graphics driver.
- VRR flicker can be reduced on some displays using the **VRR Control** or
  **Fine Tune Dark Areas** options in your monitor's OSD. These options may
  increase input lag or result in crushed blacks.
- If using an OLED display, use the **Black (OLED)** editor theme preset in the
  Editor Settings. This hides VRR flicker thanks to OLED's perfect black levels.

The editor or project takes a very long time to start
-----------------------------------------------------

When using one of the Vulkan-based renderers (Forward+ or Forward Mobile),
the first startup is expected to be relatively long. This is because shaders
need to be compiled before they can be cached. Shaders also need to be cached
again after updating Godot, after updating graphics drivers or after switching
graphics cards.

If the issue persists after the first startup, this is a
`known bug <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/20566>`__ on
Windows when you have specific USB peripherals connected. In particular,
Corsair's iCUE software seems to cause this bug. Try updating your USB
peripherals' drivers to their latest version. If the bug persists, you need to
disconnect the specific peripheral before opening the editor. You can then
connect the peripheral again.

Firewall software such as Portmaster may also cause the debug port to be
blocked. This causes the project to take a long time to start, while being
unable to use debugging features in the editor (such as viewing ``print()``
output). You can work this around by changing the debug port used by the project
in the Editor Settings (**Network > Debug > Remote Port**). The default is
``6007``; try another value that is greater than ``1024``, such as ``7007``.

The Godot editor appears frozen after clicking the system console
-----------------------------------------------------------------

When running Godot on Windows with the system console enabled, you can
accidentally enable *selection mode* by clicking inside the command window. This
Windows-specific behavior pauses the application to let you select text inside
the system console. Godot cannot override this system-specific behavior.

To solve this, select the system console window and press Enter to leave
selection mode.

The Godot editor's macOS dock icon gets duplicated every time it is manually moved
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you open the Godot editor and manually change the position of the dock icon,
then restart the editor, you will get a duplicate dock icon all the way to the
right of the dock.

This is due to a design limitation of the macOS dock. The only known way to
resolve this would be to merge the project manager and editor into a single
process, which means the project manager would no longer spawn a separate
process when starting the editor. While using a single process instance would
bring several benefits, it isn't planned to be done in the near future due to
the complexity of the task.

To avoid this issue, keep the Godot editor's dock icon at its default location
as created by macOS.

Some text such as "NO DC" appears in the top-left corner of the Project Manager and editor window
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is caused by the NVIDIA graphics driver injecting an overlay to display information.

To disable this overlay on Windows, restore your graphics driver settings to the
default values in the NVIDIA Control Panel.

To disable this overlay on Linux, open ``nvidia-settings``, go to **X Screen 0 >
OpenGL Settings** then uncheck **Enable Graphics API Visual Indicator**.

The editor or project appears overly sharp or blurry
----------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: img/troubleshooting_graphics_driver_sharpening.webp
   :align: center
   :alt: Correct appearance (left), oversharpened appearance due to graphics driver sharpening (right)

   Correct appearance (left), oversharpened appearance due to graphics driver sharpening (right)

If the editor or project appears overly sharp, this is likely due to image
sharpening being forced on all Vulkan or OpenGL applications by your graphics
driver. You can disable this behavior in the graphics driver's control panel:

- **NVIDIA (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **NVIDIA Control Panel**.
  Open the **Manage 3D settings** tab on the left. In the list in the middle,
  scroll to **Image Sharpening** and set it to **Sharpening Off**.
- **AMD (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **AMD Software**. Click the
  settings "cog" icon in the top-right corner. Go to the **Graphics** tab then
  disable **Radeon Image Sharpening**.

If the editor or project appears overly blurry, this is likely due to
:abbr:`FXAA (Fast Approximate AntiAliasing)` being forced on all Vulkan or
OpenGL applications by your graphics driver.

- **NVIDIA (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **NVIDIA Control Panel**.
  Open the **Manage 3D settings** tab on the left. In the list in the middle,
  scroll to **Fast Approximate Antialiasing** and set it to **Application
  Controlled**.
- **NVIDIA (Linux):** Open the applications menu and choose **NVIDIA X Server
  Settings**. Select to **Antialiasing Settings** on the left, then uncheck
  **Enable FXAA**.
- **AMD (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **AMD Software**. Click the
  settings "cog" icon in the top-right corner. Go to the **Graphics** tab,
  scroll to the bottom and click **Advanced** to unfold its settings. Disable
  **Morphological Anti-Aliasing**.

Third-party vendor-independent utilities such as vkBasalt may also force
sharpening or FXAA on all Vulkan applications. You may want to check their
configuration as well.

After changing options in the graphics driver or third-party utilities, restart
Godot to make the changes effective.

If you still wish to force sharpening or FXAA on other applications, it's
recommended to do so on a per-application basis using the application profiles
system provided by graphics drivers' control panels.

The editor or project appears to have washed out colors
-------------------------------------------------------

On Windows, this is usually caused by incorrect OS or monitor settings, as Godot
currently does not support :abbr:`HDR (High Dynamic Range)` *output*
(even though it may internally render in HDR).

As `most displays are not designed to display SDR content in HDR mode <https://tftcentral.co.uk/articles/heres-why-you-should-only-enable-hdr-mode-on-your-pc-when-you-are-viewing-hdr-content>`__,
it is recommended to disable HDR in the Windows settings when not running applications
that use HDR output. On Windows 11, this can be done by pressing
:kbd:`Windows + Alt + B` (this shortcut is part of the Xbox Game Bar app).
To toggle HDR automatically based on applications currently running, you can use
`AutoActions <https://github.com/Codectory/AutoActions>`__.

If you insist on leaving HDR enabled, it is possible to somewhat improve the
result by ensuring the display is configured to use :abbr:`HGIG (HDR Gaming Interest Group)`
tonemapping (as opposed to :abbr:`DTM (Dynamic Tone Mapping)`), then
`using the Windows HDR calibration app <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/calibrate-your-hdr-display-using-the-windows-hdr-calibration-app-f30f4809-3369-43e4-9b02-9eabebd23f19>`__.
It is also strongly recommended to use Windows 11 instead of Windows 10 when using HDR.
The end result will still likely be inferior to disabling HDR on the display, though.

Support for HDR *output* is planned in a future release.

The editor/project freezes or displays glitched visuals after resuming the PC from suspend
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a known issue on Linux with NVIDIA graphics when using the proprietary
driver. There is no definitive fix yet, as suspend on Linux + NVIDIA is often
buggy when OpenGL or Vulkan is involved. The Compatibility rendering method
(which uses OpenGL) is generally less prone to suspend-related issues compared
to the Forward+ and Forward Mobile rendering methods (which use Vulkan).

The NVIDIA driver offers an *experimental*
`option to preserve video memory after suspend <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA/Tips_and_tricks#Preserve_video_memory_after_suspend>`__
which may resolve this issue. This option has been reported to work better with
more recent NVIDIA driver versions.

To avoid losing work, save scenes in the editor before putting the PC to sleep.

The project works when run from the editor, but fails to load some files when running from an exported copy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is usually caused by forgetting to specify a filter for non-resource files
in the Export dialog. By default, Godot will only include actual *resources*
into the PCK file. Some files commonly used, such as JSON files, are not
considered resources. For example, if you load ``test.json`` in the exported
project, you need to specify ``*.json`` in the non-resource export filter. See
:ref:`doc_exporting_projects_export_mode` for more information.

Also, note that files and folders whose names begin with a period will never be
included in the exported project. This is done to prevent version control
folders like ``.git`` from being included in the exported PCK file.

On Windows, this can also be due to :ref:`case sensitivity
<doc_project_organization_case_sensitivity>` issues. If you reference a resource
in your script with a different case than on the filesystem, loading will fail
once you export the project. This is because the virtual PCK filesystem is
case-sensitive, while Windows's filesystem is case-insensitive by default.

Commit message:

Document disabling NVIDIA ShadowPlay overlay in Troubleshooting

tutorials/troubleshooting.rst, after:

.. _doc_troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
===============

This page lists common issues encountered when using Godot and possible solutions.

.. seealso::

    See :ref:`doc_using_the_web_editor` for caveats specific to the Web version
    of the Godot editor.

The editor runs slowly and uses all my CPU and GPU resources, making my computer noisy
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a known issue, especially on macOS since most Macs have Retina displays.
Due to Retina displays' higher pixel density, everything has to be rendered at a
higher resolution. This increases the load on the GPU and decreases perceived
performance.

There are several ways to improve performance and battery life:

- In 3D, click the **Perspective** button in the top left corner and enable
  **Half Resolution**. The 3D viewport will now be rendered at half resolution,
  which can be up to 4 times faster.
- Open the Editor Settings and increase the value of **Low Processor Mode Sleep (µsec)**
  to ``33000`` (30 FPS). This value determines the amount of *microseconds*
  between frames to render. Higher values will make the editor feel less reactive
  but will help decrease CPU and GPU usage significantly.
- If you have a node that causes the editor to redraw continuously (such as
  particles), hide it and show it using a script in the ``_ready()`` method.
  This way, it will be hidden in the editor but will still be visible in the
  running project.

The editor stutters and flickers on my variable refresh rate monitor (G-Sync/FreeSync)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a `known issue <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/38219>`__.
Variable refresh rate monitors need to adjust their gamma curves continuously to
emit a consistent amount of light over time. This can cause flicker to appear in
dark areas of the image when the refresh rate varies a lot, which occurs as
the Godot editor only redraws when necessary.

There are several workarounds for this:

- Enable **Interface > Editor > Update Continuously** in the Editor Settings. Keep in mind
  this will increase power usage and heat/noise emissions since the editor will
  now be rendering constantly, even if nothing has changed on screen. To
  alleviate this, you can increase **Low Processor Mode Sleep (µsec)** to
  ``33000`` (30 FPS) in the Editor Settings. This value determines the amount of
  *microseconds* between frames to render. Higher values will make the editor
  feel less reactive but will help decrease CPU and GPU usage significantly.
- Alternatively, disable variable refresh rate on your monitor or in the graphics driver.
- VRR flicker can be reduced on some displays using the **VRR Control** or
  **Fine Tune Dark Areas** options in your monitor's OSD. These options may
  increase input lag or result in crushed blacks.
- If using an OLED display, use the **Black (OLED)** editor theme preset in the
  Editor Settings. This hides VRR flicker thanks to OLED's perfect black levels.

The editor or project takes a very long time to start
-----------------------------------------------------

When using one of the Vulkan-based renderers (Forward+ or Forward Mobile),
the first startup is expected to be relatively long. This is because shaders
need to be compiled before they can be cached. Shaders also need to be cached
again after updating Godot, after updating graphics drivers or after switching
graphics cards.

If the issue persists after the first startup, this is a
`known bug <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/20566>`__ on
Windows when you have specific USB peripherals connected. In particular,
Corsair's iCUE software seems to cause this bug. Try updating your USB
peripherals' drivers to their latest version. If the bug persists, you need to
disconnect the specific peripheral before opening the editor. You can then
connect the peripheral again.

Firewall software such as Portmaster may also cause the debug port to be
blocked. This causes the project to take a long time to start, while being
unable to use debugging features in the editor (such as viewing ``print()``
output). You can work this around by changing the debug port used by the project
in the Editor Settings (**Network > Debug > Remote Port**). The default is
``6007``; try another value that is greater than ``1024``, such as ``7007``.

The Godot editor appears frozen after clicking the system console
-----------------------------------------------------------------

When running Godot on Windows with the system console enabled, you can
accidentally enable *selection mode* by clicking inside the command window. This
Windows-specific behavior pauses the application to let you select text inside
the system console. Godot cannot override this system-specific behavior.

To solve this, select the system console window and press Enter to leave
selection mode.

The Godot editor's macOS dock icon gets duplicated every time it is manually moved
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you open the Godot editor and manually change the position of the dock icon,
then restart the editor, you will get a duplicate dock icon all the way to the
right of the dock.

This is due to a design limitation of the macOS dock. The only known way to
resolve this would be to merge the project manager and editor into a single
process, which means the project manager would no longer spawn a separate
process when starting the editor. While using a single process instance would
bring several benefits, it isn't planned to be done in the near future due to
the complexity of the task.

To avoid this issue, keep the Godot editor's dock icon at its default location
as created by macOS.

Some text such as "NO DC" appears in the top-left corner of the Project Manager and editor window
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is caused by the NVIDIA graphics driver injecting an overlay to display information.

To disable this overlay on Windows, restore your graphics driver settings to the
default values in the NVIDIA Control Panel.

To disable this overlay on Linux, open ``nvidia-settings``, go to **X Screen 0 >
OpenGL Settings** then uncheck **Enable Graphics API Visual Indicator**.

A microphone or "refresh" icon appears in the bottom-right corner of the Project Manager and editor window
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is caused by the NVIDIA graphics driver injecting an overlay to display
instant replay information on ShadowPlay recording. This overlay can only be
seen on Windows, as Linux does not have support for ShadowPlay.

To disable this overlay, press :kbd:`Alt + Z` (default shortcut for the NVIDIA overlay)
and disable **Settings > HUD Layout > Status Indicator** in the NVIDIA overlay.

The editor or project appears overly sharp or blurry
----------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: img/troubleshooting_graphics_driver_sharpening.webp
   :align: center
   :alt: Correct appearance (left), oversharpened appearance due to graphics driver sharpening (right)

   Correct appearance (left), oversharpened appearance due to graphics driver sharpening (right)

If the editor or project appears overly sharp, this is likely due to image
sharpening being forced on all Vulkan or OpenGL applications by your graphics
driver. You can disable this behavior in the graphics driver's control panel:

- **NVIDIA (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **NVIDIA Control Panel**.
  Open the **Manage 3D settings** tab on the left. In the list in the middle,
  scroll to **Image Sharpening** and set it to **Sharpening Off**.
- **AMD (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **AMD Software**. Click the
  settings "cog" icon in the top-right corner. Go to the **Graphics** tab then
  disable **Radeon Image Sharpening**.

If the editor or project appears overly blurry, this is likely due to
:abbr:`FXAA (Fast Approximate AntiAliasing)` being forced on all Vulkan or
OpenGL applications by your graphics driver.

- **NVIDIA (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **NVIDIA Control Panel**.
  Open the **Manage 3D settings** tab on the left. In the list in the middle,
  scroll to **Fast Approximate Antialiasing** and set it to **Application
  Controlled**.
- **NVIDIA (Linux):** Open the applications menu and choose **NVIDIA X Server
  Settings**. Select to **Antialiasing Settings** on the left, then uncheck
  **Enable FXAA**.
- **AMD (Windows):** Open the start menu and choose **AMD Software**. Click the
  settings "cog" icon in the top-right corner. Go to the **Graphics** tab,
  scroll to the bottom and click **Advanced** to unfold its settings. Disable
  **Morphological Anti-Aliasing**.

Third-party vendor-independent utilities such as vkBasalt may also force
sharpening or FXAA on all Vulkan applications. You may want to check their
configuration as well.

After changing options in the graphics driver or third-party utilities, restart
Godot to make the changes effective.

If you still wish to force sharpening or FXAA on other applications, it's
recommended to do so on a per-application basis using the application profiles
system provided by graphics drivers' control panels.

The editor or project appears to have washed out colors
-------------------------------------------------------

On Windows, this is usually caused by incorrect OS or monitor settings, as Godot
currently does not support :abbr:`HDR (High Dynamic Range)` *output*
(even though it may internally render in HDR).

As `most displays are not designed to display SDR content in HDR mode <https://tftcentral.co.uk/articles/heres-why-you-should-only-enable-hdr-mode-on-your-pc-when-you-are-viewing-hdr-content>`__,
it is recommended to disable HDR in the Windows settings when not running applications
that use HDR output. On Windows 11, this can be done by pressing
:kbd:`Windows + Alt + B` (this shortcut is part of the Xbox Game Bar app).
To toggle HDR automatically based on applications currently running, you can use
`AutoActions <https://github.com/Codectory/AutoActions>`__.

If you insist on leaving HDR enabled, it is possible to somewhat improve the
result by ensuring the display is configured to use :abbr:`HGIG (HDR Gaming Interest Group)`
tonemapping (as opposed to :abbr:`DTM (Dynamic Tone Mapping)`), then
`using the Windows HDR calibration app <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/calibrate-your-hdr-display-using-the-windows-hdr-calibration-app-f30f4809-3369-43e4-9b02-9eabebd23f19>`__.
It is also strongly recommended to use Windows 11 instead of Windows 10 when using HDR.
The end result will still likely be inferior to disabling HDR on the display, though.

Support for HDR *output* is planned in a future release.

The editor/project freezes or displays glitched visuals after resuming the PC from suspend
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a known issue on Linux with NVIDIA graphics when using the proprietary
driver. There is no definitive fix yet, as suspend on Linux + NVIDIA is often
buggy when OpenGL or Vulkan is involved. The Compatibility rendering method
(which uses OpenGL) is generally less prone to suspend-related issues compared
to the Forward+ and Forward Mobile rendering methods (which use Vulkan).

The NVIDIA driver offers an *experimental*
`option to preserve video memory after suspend <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA/Tips_and_tricks#Preserve_video_memory_after_suspend>`__
which may resolve this issue. This option has been reported to work better with
more recent NVIDIA driver versions.

To avoid losing work, save scenes in the editor before putting the PC to sleep.

The project works when run from the editor, but fails to load some files when running from an exported copy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is usually caused by forgetting to specify a filter for non-resource files
in the Export dialog. By default, Godot will only include actual *resources*
into the PCK file. Some files commonly used, such as JSON files, are not
considered resources. For example, if you load ``test.json`` in the exported
project, you need to specify ``*.json`` in the non-resource export filter. See
:ref:`doc_exporting_projects_export_mode` for more information.

Also, note that files and folders whose names begin with a period will never be
included in the exported project. This is done to prevent version control
folders like ``.git`` from being included in the exported PCK file.

On Windows, this can also be due to :ref:`case sensitivity
<doc_project_organization_case_sensitivity>` issues. If you reference a resource
in your script with a different case than on the filesystem, loading will fail
once you export the project. This is because the virtual PCK filesystem is
case-sensitive, while Windows's filesystem is case-insensitive by default.
