tutorials/assets_pipeline/escn_exporter/skeleton.rst, before:

Skeleton
========

.. image:: img/armature.jpg

Rest Bone
---------

Armature object in Blender is exported as a Skeleton node along with
rest position (transform in Godot) of bones.

.. warning::
    The three check boxes :code:`Inherit Rotation`, :code:`Inherit Scale`,
    :code:`Local Location` (colored in red) must be ticked when building
    armature in Blender, so that the exported bone transform be
    consistent between Blender and Godot

It is important that the mesh is not deformed by bones when exporting in Blender. Make sure
that the skeleton is reset to its T-pose or default rest pose.

Bone Weights
------------

Blender puts rigged mesh vertices which have no bone weights at their original
position, but these vertices would be placed at (0, 0, 0) in Godot, making the mesh
deformed. Therefore, the exporter will raise an error for any vertex with no bone weights
detected in a rigged mesh.

Non-Deform Bone
---------------

Note that the non-deform bone can be configured as not exported
by enabling the :code:`Exclude Control Bones`; the deform bone
checkbox is shown in the picture.


Bone Attachment
---------------
A bone can be the parent of an object in Blender; this relation is exported
as a BoneAttachment node in the Godot scene.

Commit message:

Mark Blender ESCN exporter as deprecated

tutorials/assets_pipeline/escn_exporter/skeleton.rst, after:

Skeleton
========

.. warning::
   This chapter covers the Blender plugin
   `Godot Blender Exporter <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-blender-exporter>`__,
   which is deprecated in Godot 4.x. To export from Blender to Godot 4.x, use
   one of the :ref:`available 3D formats <doc_importing_3d_scenes_available_formats>`.

.. image:: img/armature.jpg

Rest Bone
---------

Armature object in Blender is exported as a Skeleton node along with
rest position (transform in Godot) of bones.

.. warning::
    The three check boxes :code:`Inherit Rotation`, :code:`Inherit Scale`,
    :code:`Local Location` (colored in red) must be ticked when building
    armature in Blender, so that the exported bone transform be
    consistent between Blender and Godot

It is important that the mesh is not deformed by bones when exporting in Blender. Make sure
that the skeleton is reset to its T-pose or default rest pose.

Bone Weights
------------

Blender puts rigged mesh vertices which have no bone weights at their original
position, but these vertices would be placed at (0, 0, 0) in Godot, making the mesh
deformed. Therefore, the exporter will raise an error for any vertex with no bone weights
detected in a rigged mesh.

Non-Deform Bone
---------------

Note that the non-deform bone can be configured as not exported
by enabling the :code:`Exclude Control Bones`; the deform bone
checkbox is shown in the picture.


Bone Attachment
---------------
A bone can be the parent of an object in Blender; this relation is exported
as a BoneAttachment node in the Godot scene.
