tutorials/export/feature_tags.rst, before:

.. _doc_feature_tags:

Feature tags
============

Introduction
------------

Godot has a special system to tag availability of features.
Each *feature* is represented as a string, which can refer to many of the following:

* Platform name.
* Platform architecture (64-bit or 32-bit, x86 or ARM).
* Platform type (desktop, mobile, Web).
* Supported texture compression algorithms on the platform.
* Whether a build is ``debug`` or ``release`` (``debug`` includes the editor).
* Whether the project is running from the editor or a "standalone" binary.
* Many more things.

Features can be queried at runtime from the singleton API by calling:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    OS.has_feature(name)

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    OS.HasFeature(name);

OS feature tags are used by GDExtension to determine which libraries to load.
For example, a library for ``linux.debug.editor.x86_64`` will be
loaded only on a debug editor build for Linux x86_64.

Default features
----------------

Here is a list of most feature tags in Godot. Keep in mind they are **case-sensitive**:

+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **Feature tag**    | **Description**                                          |
+====================+==========================================================+
| **android**        | Running on Android (but not within a Web browser)        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **bsd**            | Running on \*BSD (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **linux**          | Running on Linux (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **macos**          | Running on macOS (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ios**            | Running on iOS (but not within a Web browser)            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **windows**        | Running on Windows                                       |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **linuxbsd**       | Running on Linux or \*BSD                                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **debug**          | Running on a debug build (including the editor)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **release**        | Running on a release build                               |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor**         | Running on an editor build                               |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor_hint**    | Running on an editor build, and inside the editor        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor_runtime** | Running on an editor build, and running the project      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **template**       | Running on a non-editor (export template) build          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **double**         | Running on a double-precision build                      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **single**         | Running on a single-precision build                      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **64**             | Running on a 64-bit build (any architecture)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **32**             | Running on a 32-bit build (any architecture)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86_64**         | Running on a 64-bit x86 build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86_32**         | Running on a 32-bit x86 build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86**            | Running on an x86 build (any bitness)                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm64**          | Running on a 64-bit ARM build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm32**          | Running on a 32-bit ARM build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm**            | Running on an ARM build (any bitness)                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **rv64**           | Running on a 64-bit RISC-V build                         |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **riscv**          | Running on a RISC-V build (any bitness)                  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc64**          | Running on a 64-bit PowerPC build                        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc32**          | Running on a 32-bit PowerPC build                        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc**            | Running on a PowerPC build (any bitness)                 |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm64**         | Running on a 64-bit WebAssembly build (not yet possible) |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm32**         | Running on a 32-bit WebAssembly build                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm**           | Running on a WebAssembly build (any bitness)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **mobile**         | Host OS is a mobile platform                             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **pc**             | Host OS is a PC platform (desktop/laptop)                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web**            | Host OS is a Web browser                                 |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_android**    | Host OS is a Web browser running on Android              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_ios**        | Host OS is a Web browser running on iOS                  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_linuxbsd**   | Host OS is a Web browser running on Linux or \*BSD       |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_macos**      | Host OS is a Web browser running on macOS                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_windows**    | Host OS is a Web browser running on Windows              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **etc**            | Textures using ETC1 compression are supported            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **etc2**           | Textures using ETC2 compression are supported            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **s3tc**           | Textures using S3TC (DXT/BC) compression are supported   |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **movie**          | :ref:`Movie Maker mode <doc_creating_movies>` is active  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

.. warning::

    With the exception of texture compression, ``web_<platform>`` and
    ``movie`` feature tags, default feature tags are **immutable**.
    This means that they will *not* change depending on runtime conditions.
    For example, ``OS.has_feature("mobile")`` will return ``false``
    when running a project exported to Web on a mobile device.

    To check whether a project exported to Web is running on a mobile device,
    use ``OS.has_feature("web_android") or OS.has_feature("web_ios")``.

Custom features
---------------

It is possible to add custom features to a build; use the relevant
field in the *export preset* used to generate it:

.. image:: img/feature_tags1.webp

.. note::

    Custom feature tags are only used when running the exported project
    (including with :ref:`doc_one-click_deploy`). They are **not used** when
    running the project from the editor, even if the export preset marked as
    **Runnable** for your current platform has custom feature tags defined.

Overriding project settings
---------------------------

Features can be used to override specific configuration values in the *Project Settings*.
This allows you to better customize any configuration when doing a build.

In the following example, a different icon is added for the demo build of the game (which was
customized in a special export preset, which, in turn, includes only demo levels).

.. figure:: img/feature_tags2.webp
    :alt: The Project Settings panel

    The desired configuration is selected, which effectively copies its properties to the panel above (1). The "demo_build" feature tag is selected (2). The configuration is added to the project settings (3).

After overriding, a new field is added for this specific configuration.

.. image:: img/feature_tags3.webp

.. note::

    When using the
    :ref:`project settings "override.cfg" functionality <class_ProjectSettings>`
    (which is unrelated to feature tags), remember that feature tags still apply.
    Therefore, make sure to *also* override the setting with the desired feature
    tag(s) if you want them to override base project settings on all platforms
    and configurations.

Default overrides
-----------------

There are already a lot of settings that come with overrides by default; they can be found
in many sections of the project settings.

.. image:: img/feature_tags4.webp

Taking feature tags into account when reading project settings
--------------------------------------------------------------

By default, feature tags are **not** taken into account when reading project settings
using the typical approaches (:ref:`ProjectSettings.get_setting<class_ProjectSettings_method_get_setting>`
or :ref:`ProjectSettings.get <class_Object_private_method__get>`).
Instead, you must use :ref:`ProjectSettings.get_setting_with_override <class_ProjectSettings_method_get_setting>`.

For example, with the following project settings:

::

    [section]

    subsection/example = "Release"
    subsection/example.debug = "Debug"

Using ``ProjectSettings.get_setting("section/subsection/example")`` will return
``"Release"`` regardless of whether a debug build is currently running. On the
other hand, ``ProjectSettings.get_setting_with_override("section/subsection/example")``
will obey feature tags and will return ``"Debug"`` if using a debug build.

Customizing the build
---------------------

Feature tags can be used to customize a build process too, by writing a custom **ExportPlugin**.
They are also used to specify which shared library is loaded and exported in **GDExtension**.

Commit message:

Document unsupported custom feature tags in EditorExportPlugin in Feature tags

tutorials/export/feature_tags.rst, after:

.. _doc_feature_tags:

Feature tags
============

Introduction
------------

Godot has a special system to tag availability of features.
Each *feature* is represented as a string, which can refer to many of the following:

* Platform name.
* Platform architecture (64-bit or 32-bit, x86 or ARM).
* Platform type (desktop, mobile, Web).
* Supported texture compression algorithms on the platform.
* Whether a build is ``debug`` or ``release`` (``debug`` includes the editor).
* Whether the project is running from the editor or a "standalone" binary.
* Many more things.

Features can be queried at runtime from the singleton API by calling:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    OS.has_feature(name)

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    OS.HasFeature(name);

OS feature tags are used by GDExtension to determine which libraries to load.
For example, a library for ``linux.debug.editor.x86_64`` will be
loaded only on a debug editor build for Linux x86_64.

Default features
----------------

Here is a list of most feature tags in Godot. Keep in mind they are **case-sensitive**:

+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **Feature tag**    | **Description**                                          |
+====================+==========================================================+
| **android**        | Running on Android (but not within a Web browser)        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **bsd**            | Running on \*BSD (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **linux**          | Running on Linux (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **macos**          | Running on macOS (but not within a Web browser)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ios**            | Running on iOS (but not within a Web browser)            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **windows**        | Running on Windows                                       |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **linuxbsd**       | Running on Linux or \*BSD                                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **debug**          | Running on a debug build (including the editor)          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **release**        | Running on a release build                               |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor**         | Running on an editor build                               |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor_hint**    | Running on an editor build, and inside the editor        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **editor_runtime** | Running on an editor build, and running the project      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **template**       | Running on a non-editor (export template) build          |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **double**         | Running on a double-precision build                      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **single**         | Running on a single-precision build                      |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **64**             | Running on a 64-bit build (any architecture)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **32**             | Running on a 32-bit build (any architecture)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86_64**         | Running on a 64-bit x86 build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86_32**         | Running on a 32-bit x86 build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **x86**            | Running on an x86 build (any bitness)                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm64**          | Running on a 64-bit ARM build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm32**          | Running on a 32-bit ARM build                            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **arm**            | Running on an ARM build (any bitness)                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **rv64**           | Running on a 64-bit RISC-V build                         |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **riscv**          | Running on a RISC-V build (any bitness)                  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc64**          | Running on a 64-bit PowerPC build                        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc32**          | Running on a 32-bit PowerPC build                        |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **ppc**            | Running on a PowerPC build (any bitness)                 |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm64**         | Running on a 64-bit WebAssembly build (not yet possible) |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm32**         | Running on a 32-bit WebAssembly build                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **wasm**           | Running on a WebAssembly build (any bitness)             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **mobile**         | Host OS is a mobile platform                             |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **pc**             | Host OS is a PC platform (desktop/laptop)                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web**            | Host OS is a Web browser                                 |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_android**    | Host OS is a Web browser running on Android              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_ios**        | Host OS is a Web browser running on iOS                  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_linuxbsd**   | Host OS is a Web browser running on Linux or \*BSD       |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_macos**      | Host OS is a Web browser running on macOS                |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **web_windows**    | Host OS is a Web browser running on Windows              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **etc**            | Textures using ETC1 compression are supported            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **etc2**           | Textures using ETC2 compression are supported            |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **s3tc**           | Textures using S3TC (DXT/BC) compression are supported   |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| **movie**          | :ref:`Movie Maker mode <doc_creating_movies>` is active  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

.. warning::

    With the exception of texture compression, ``web_<platform>`` and
    ``movie`` feature tags, default feature tags are **immutable**.
    This means that they will *not* change depending on runtime conditions.
    For example, ``OS.has_feature("mobile")`` will return ``false``
    when running a project exported to Web on a mobile device.

    To check whether a project exported to Web is running on a mobile device,
    use ``OS.has_feature("web_android") or OS.has_feature("web_ios")``.

Custom features
---------------

It is possible to add custom features to a build; use the relevant
field in the *export preset* used to generate it:

.. image:: img/feature_tags1.webp

.. note::

    Custom feature tags are only used when running the exported project
    (including with :ref:`doc_one-click_deploy`). They are **not used** when
    running the project from the editor, even if the export preset marked as
    **Runnable** for your current platform has custom feature tags defined.

    Custom feature tags are also not used in :ref:`class_EditorExportPlugin`
    scripts. Instead, feature tags in :ref:`class_EditorExportPlugin`
    will reflect the device the editor is currently running on.

Overriding project settings
---------------------------

Features can be used to override specific configuration values in the *Project Settings*.
This allows you to better customize any configuration when doing a build.

In the following example, a different icon is added for the demo build of the game (which was
customized in a special export preset, which, in turn, includes only demo levels).

.. figure:: img/feature_tags2.webp
    :alt: The Project Settings panel

    The desired configuration is selected, which effectively copies its properties to the panel above (1). The "demo_build" feature tag is selected (2). The configuration is added to the project settings (3).

After overriding, a new field is added for this specific configuration.

.. image:: img/feature_tags3.webp

.. note::

    When using the
    :ref:`project settings "override.cfg" functionality <class_ProjectSettings>`
    (which is unrelated to feature tags), remember that feature tags still apply.
    Therefore, make sure to *also* override the setting with the desired feature
    tag(s) if you want them to override base project settings on all platforms
    and configurations.

Default overrides
-----------------

There are already a lot of settings that come with overrides by default; they can be found
in many sections of the project settings.

.. image:: img/feature_tags4.webp

Taking feature tags into account when reading project settings
--------------------------------------------------------------

By default, feature tags are **not** taken into account when reading project settings
using the typical approaches (:ref:`ProjectSettings.get_setting<class_ProjectSettings_method_get_setting>`
or :ref:`ProjectSettings.get <class_Object_private_method__get>`).
Instead, you must use :ref:`ProjectSettings.get_setting_with_override <class_ProjectSettings_method_get_setting>`.

For example, with the following project settings:

::

    [section]

    subsection/example = "Release"
    subsection/example.debug = "Debug"

Using ``ProjectSettings.get_setting("section/subsection/example")`` will return
``"Release"`` regardless of whether a debug build is currently running. On the
other hand, ``ProjectSettings.get_setting_with_override("section/subsection/example")``
will obey feature tags and will return ``"Debug"`` if using a debug build.

Customizing the build
---------------------

Feature tags can be used to customize a build process too, by writing a custom **ExportPlugin**.
They are also used to specify which shared library is loaded and exported in **GDExtension**.
