community/tutorials.rst, before:

.. _doc_community_tutorials:

Tutorials and resources
=======================

This is a list of third-party tutorials and resources created by the Godot community. For resources, remember that there is the official `Godot Asset Library <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset>`_ full of official and community resources too! Also, have a look at this `huge list over at Reddit <https://www.reddit.com/r/godot/comments/an0iq5/godot_tutorials_list_of_video_and_written/>`_.

Think there is something missing here? Feel free to submit a `Pull Request <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/blob/master/community/tutorials.rst>`_ as always.

Where to start
--------------

The Godot video tutorials by `GDQuest <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxboW7x0jZqFdvMdCFKTMsQ/playlists>`_ are well-regarded in the community and often recommended as a gentle introduction to beginners.

GDQuest's *Learn GDScript From Zero* is a free and open source interactive tutorial for absolute beginners to learn to program with Godot's GDScript language. It is available as a `desktop application <https://gdquest.itch.io/learn-godot-gdscript>`_  or `in the browser <https://gdquest.github.io/learn-gdscript>`_.

Some tutorials mentioned below provide more advanced tutorials, e.g. on 3D or shaders.

Video tutorials
---------------

- `BornCG <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLda3VoSoc_TTp8Ng3C57spnNkOw3Hm_35>`_ (2D and 3D, GDScript)
- `Clear Code <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nAh_Kx5Zh5Q>`_ (2D, GDScript, Programming Basics)
- `FencerDevLog <https://www.youtube.com/@FencerDevLog>`_ (2D, 3D, GDScript, Shaders)
- `FinePointCGI <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSojAWUnEUTUcdA9iJ6bryQ>`_ (2D, 3D, GDScript and C#)
- `GDQuest <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxboW7x0jZqFdvMdCFKTMsQ/playlists>`_ (2D and 3D, GDScript and C#)
- `Game Dev Artisan <https://www.youtube.com/@GameDevArtisan>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Game Development Center <https://www.youtube.com/c/GameDevelopmentCenter>`_ (2D, networked multiplayer, GDScript)
- `Game Endeavor <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLweX1UtQjRjj7rs_0XQ2Eg/videos>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Gwizz <https://www.youtube.com/@Gwizz1027>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Godotneers <https://www.youtube.com/@godotneers>`_ (2D, Shaders, GDScript)
- `HeartBeast <https://www.youtube.com/@uheartbeast>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `KidsCanCode <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNaPQ5uLX5iIEHUCLmfAgKg/playlists>`__ (2D and 3D, GDScript)
- `Maker Tech <https://www.youtube.com/@MakerTech/>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Pigdev <https://www.youtube.com/@pigdev>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Queble <https://www.youtube.com/@queblegamedevelopment4143>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Quiver <https://quiver.dev/>`_ (2D, GDScript)

Text tutorials
--------------

- `FinepointCGI website by Mitch <https://finepointcgi.io/>`__
- `GDScript website by Andrew Wilkes <https://gdscript.com>`__
- `Godot Recipes by KidsCanCode <https://kidscancode.org/godot_recipes/4.x/>`__
- `Godot Tutorials by SomethingLikeGames <https://www.somethinglikegames.de/en/tags/godot-engine/>`__
- `Game Dev Artisan website <https://gamedevartisan.com/>`__
- `Night Quest Games Blog <https://www.nightquestgames.com/blog-articles/>`__

Devlogs
-------

- `Bastiaan Olij (AR & VR) <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrbLJYzJjDf2p-vJC011lYw/videos>`_
- `bitbrain <https://www.youtube.com/@bitbraindev>`_
- `DevDuck (2D) <https://www.youtube.com/@devduck/videos>`_

Resources
---------

- `awesome-godot: A curated list of free/libre plugins, scripts and add-ons <https://github.com/godotengine/awesome-godot>`_
- `Godot Asset Library <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset>`_
- `Godot Shaders: A community-driven shader library <https://godotshaders.com/>`_
- `Zeef Godot Engine: A curated directory of resources by Andre Schmitz <https://godot-engine.zeef.com/andre.antonio.schmitz>`_

Commit message:

Update tutorials.rst - added free Zenva resources

community/tutorials.rst, after:

.. _doc_community_tutorials:

Tutorials and resources
=======================

This is a list of third-party tutorials and resources created by the Godot community. For resources, remember that there is the official `Godot Asset Library <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset>`_ full of official and community resources too! Also, have a look at this `huge list over at Reddit <https://www.reddit.com/r/godot/comments/an0iq5/godot_tutorials_list_of_video_and_written/>`_.

Think there is something missing here? Feel free to submit a `Pull Request <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/blob/master/community/tutorials.rst>`_ as always.

Where to start
--------------

The Godot video tutorials by `GDQuest <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxboW7x0jZqFdvMdCFKTMsQ/playlists>`_ are well-regarded in the community and often recommended as a gentle introduction to beginners.

GDQuest's *Learn GDScript From Zero* is a free and open source interactive tutorial for absolute beginners to learn to program with Godot's GDScript language. It is available as a `desktop application <https://gdquest.itch.io/learn-godot-gdscript>`_  or `in the browser <https://gdquest.github.io/learn-gdscript>`_.

Some tutorials mentioned below provide more advanced tutorials, e.g. on 3D or shaders.

Video tutorials
---------------

- `BornCG <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLda3VoSoc_TTp8Ng3C57spnNkOw3Hm_35>`_ (2D and 3D, GDScript)
- `Clear Code <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nAh_Kx5Zh5Q>`_ (2D, GDScript, Programming Basics)
- `FencerDevLog <https://www.youtube.com/@FencerDevLog>`_ (2D, 3D, GDScript, Shaders)
- `FinePointCGI <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSojAWUnEUTUcdA9iJ6bryQ>`_ (2D, 3D, GDScript and C#)
- `GDQuest <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxboW7x0jZqFdvMdCFKTMsQ/playlists>`_ (2D and 3D, GDScript and C#)
- `Game Dev Artisan <https://www.youtube.com/@GameDevArtisan>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Game Development Center <https://www.youtube.com/c/GameDevelopmentCenter>`_ (2D, networked multiplayer, GDScript)
- `Game Endeavor <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLweX1UtQjRjj7rs_0XQ2Eg/videos>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Gwizz <https://www.youtube.com/@Gwizz1027>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Godotneers <https://www.youtube.com/@godotneers>`_ (2D, Shaders, GDScript)
- `HeartBeast <https://www.youtube.com/@uheartbeast>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `KidsCanCode <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNaPQ5uLX5iIEHUCLmfAgKg/playlists>`__ (2D and 3D, GDScript)
- `Maker Tech <https://www.youtube.com/@MakerTech/>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Pigdev <https://www.youtube.com/@pigdev>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Queble <https://www.youtube.com/@queblegamedevelopment4143>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Quiver <https://quiver.dev/>`_ (2D, GDScript)
- `Zenva <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TiVdV4lMDnE&list=PLnEt5PBXuAmsMmS2w-mwnT1bk0JN2YyYM>`_ (2D and 3D, GDScript and C#)

Text tutorials
--------------

- `FinepointCGI website by Mitch <https://finepointcgi.io/>`__
- `GDScript website by Andrew Wilkes <https://gdscript.com>`__
- `Godot Recipes by KidsCanCode <https://kidscancode.org/godot_recipes/4.x/>`__
- `Godot Tutorials by SomethingLikeGames <https://www.somethinglikegames.de/en/tags/godot-engine/>`__
- `GameDev Academy by Zenva <https://gamedevacademy.org/category/godot-tutorials/godot-4/>`__
- `Game Dev Artisan website <https://gamedevartisan.com/>`__
- `Night Quest Games Blog <https://www.nightquestgames.com/blog-articles/>`__

Devlogs
-------

- `Bastiaan Olij (AR & VR) <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrbLJYzJjDf2p-vJC011lYw/videos>`_
- `bitbrain <https://www.youtube.com/@bitbraindev>`_
- `DevDuck (2D) <https://www.youtube.com/@devduck/videos>`_

Resources
---------

- `awesome-godot: A curated list of free/libre plugins, scripts and add-ons <https://github.com/godotengine/awesome-godot>`_
- `Godot Asset Library <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset>`_
- `Godot Shaders: A community-driven shader library <https://godotshaders.com/>`_
- `Zeef Godot Engine: A curated directory of resources by Andre Schmitz <https://godot-engine.zeef.com/andre.antonio.schmitz>`_
