getting_started/first_2d_game/05.the_main_game_scene.rst, before:

.. _doc_your_first_2d_game_the_main_game_scene:

The main game scene
===================

Now it's time to bring everything we did together into a playable game scene.

Create a new scene and add a :ref:`Node <class_Node>` named ``Main``.
(The reason we are using Node instead of Node2D is because this node will
be a container for handling game logic. It does not require 2D functionality itself.)

Click the **Instance** button (represented by a chain link icon) and select your saved
``player.tscn``.

.. image:: img/instance_scene.webp

Now, add the following nodes as children of ``Main``, and name them as shown:

- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``MobTimer``) - to control how often mobs
  spawn
- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``ScoreTimer``) - to increment the score
  every second
- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``StartTimer``) - to give a delay before
  starting
- :ref:`Marker2D <class_Marker2D>` (named ``StartPosition``) - to indicate
  the player's start position

Set the ``Wait Time`` property of each of the ``Timer`` nodes as follows (values are in seconds):

- ``MobTimer``: ``0.5``
- ``ScoreTimer``: ``1``
- ``StartTimer``: ``2``

In addition, set the ``One Shot`` property of ``StartTimer`` to "On" and set
``Position`` of the ``StartPosition`` node to ``(240, 450)``.

Spawning mobs
-------------

The Main node will be spawning new mobs, and we want them to appear at a random
location on the edge of the screen. Add a :ref:`Path2D <class_Path2D>` node
named ``MobPath`` as a child of ``Main``. When you select ``Path2D``, you will
see some new buttons at the top of the editor:

.. image:: img/path2d_buttons.webp

Select the middle one ("Add Point") and draw the path by clicking to add the
points at the corners shown. To have the points snap to the grid, make sure "Use
Grid Snap" and "Use Smart Snap" are both selected. These options can be found to the
left of the "Lock" button, appearing as a magnet next to some dots and
intersecting lines, respectively.

.. image:: img/grid_snap_button.webp

.. important:: Draw the path in *clockwise* order, or your mobs will spawn
               pointing *outwards* instead of *inwards*!

.. image:: img/draw_path2d.gif

After placing point ``4`` in the image, click the "Close Curve" button and your
curve will be complete.

Now that the path is defined, add a :ref:`PathFollow2D <class_PathFollow2D>`
node as a child of ``MobPath`` and name it ``MobSpawnLocation``. This node will
automatically rotate and follow the path as it moves, so we can use it to select
a random position and direction along the path.

Your scene should look like this:

.. image:: img/main_scene_nodes.webp

Main script
-----------

Add a script to ``Main``. At the top of the script, we use
``@export var mob_scene: PackedScene`` to allow us to choose the Mob scene we want
to instance.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    extends Node

    @export var mob_scene: PackedScene
    var score

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    public partial class Main : Node
    {
        // Don't forget to rebuild the project so the editor knows about the new export variable.

        [Export]
        public PackedScene MobScene { get; set; }

        private int _score;
    }

Click the ``Main`` node and you will see the ``Mob Scene`` property in the Inspector
under "Main.gd".

You can assign this property's value in two ways:

- Drag ``mob.tscn`` from the "FileSystem" dock and drop it in the **Mob Scene**
  property.
- Click the down arrow next to "[empty]" and choose "Load". Select ``mob.tscn``.

Next, select the instance of the ``Player`` scene under ``Main`` node in the Scene dock,
and access the Node dock on the sidebar. Make sure to have the Signals tab selected
in the Node dock.

You should see a list of the signals for the ``Player`` node. Find and
double-click the ``hit`` signal in the list (or right-click it and select
"Connect..."). This will open the signal connection dialog. We want to make a
new function named ``game_over``, which will handle what needs to happen when a
game ends. Type "game_over" in the "Receiver Method" box at the bottom of the
signal connection dialog and click "Connect". You are aiming to have the ``hit`` signal
emitted from ``Player`` and handled in the ``Main`` script. Add the following code
to the new function, as well as a ``new_game`` function that will set
everything up for a new game:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func game_over():
        $ScoreTimer.stop()
        $MobTimer.stop()

    func new_game():
        score = 0
        $Player.start($StartPosition.position)
        $StartTimer.start()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    public void GameOver()
    {
        GetNode<Timer>("MobTimer").Stop();
        GetNode<Timer>("ScoreTimer").Stop();
    }

    public void NewGame()
    {
        _score = 0;

        var player = GetNode<Player>("Player");
        var startPosition = GetNode<Marker2D>("StartPosition");
        player.Start(startPosition.Position);

        GetNode<Timer>("StartTimer").Start();
    }

Now connect the ``timeout()`` signal of each of the Timer nodes (``StartTimer``,
``ScoreTimer``, and ``MobTimer``) to the main script. ``StartTimer`` will start
the other two timers. ``ScoreTimer`` will increment the score by 1.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _on_score_timer_timeout():
        score += 1

    func _on_start_timer_timeout():
        $MobTimer.start()
        $ScoreTimer.start()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnScoreTimerTimeout()
    {
        _score++;
    }

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnStartTimerTimeout()
    {
        GetNode<Timer>("MobTimer").Start();
        GetNode<Timer>("ScoreTimer").Start();
    }

In ``_on_mob_timer_timeout()``, we will create a mob instance, pick a random
starting location along the ``Path2D``, and set the mob in motion. The
``PathFollow2D`` node will automatically rotate as it follows the path, so we
will use that to select the mob's direction as well as its position.
When we spawn a mob, we'll pick a random value between ``150.0`` and
``250.0`` for how fast each mob will move (it would be boring if they were
all moving at the same speed).

Note that a new instance must be added to the scene using ``add_child()``.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _on_mob_timer_timeout():
        # Create a new instance of the Mob scene.
        var mob = mob_scene.instantiate()

        # Choose a random location on Path2D.
        var mob_spawn_location = $MobPath/MobSpawnLocation
        mob_spawn_location.progress_ratio = randf()

        # Set the mob's position to the random location.
        mob.position = mob_spawn_location.position

        # Set the mob's direction perpendicular to the path direction.
        var direction = mob_spawn_location.rotation + PI / 2

        # Add some randomness to the direction.
        direction += randf_range(-PI / 4, PI / 4)
        mob.rotation = direction

        # Choose the velocity for the mob.
        var velocity = Vector2(randf_range(150.0, 250.0), 0.0)
        mob.linear_velocity = velocity.rotated(direction)

        # Spawn the mob by adding it to the Main scene.
        add_child(mob)

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnMobTimerTimeout()
    {
        // Create a new instance of the Mob scene.
        Mob mob = MobScene.Instantiate<Mob>();

        // Choose a random location on Path2D.
        var mobSpawnLocation = GetNode<PathFollow2D>("MobPath/MobSpawnLocation");
        mobSpawnLocation.ProgressRatio = GD.Randf();

        // Set the mob's direction perpendicular to the path direction.
        float direction = mobSpawnLocation.Rotation + Mathf.Pi / 2;

        // Set the mob's position to a random location.
        mob.Position = mobSpawnLocation.Position;

        // Add some randomness to the direction.
        direction += (float)GD.RandRange(-Mathf.Pi / 4, Mathf.Pi / 4);
        mob.Rotation = direction;

        // Choose the velocity.
        var velocity = new Vector2((float)GD.RandRange(150.0, 250.0), 0);
        mob.LinearVelocity = velocity.Rotated(direction);

        // Spawn the mob by adding it to the Main scene.
        AddChild(mob);
    }

.. important:: Why ``PI``? In functions requiring angles, Godot uses *radians*,
               not degrees. Pi represents a half turn in radians, about
               ``3.1415`` (there is also ``TAU`` which is equal to ``2 * PI``).
               If you're more comfortable working with degrees, you'll need to
               use the ``deg_to_rad()`` and ``rad_to_deg()`` functions to
               convert between the two.

Testing the scene
-----------------

Let's test the scene to make sure everything is working. Add this ``new_game``
call to ``_ready()``:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _ready():
        new_game()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        NewGame();
    }

Let's also assign ``Main`` as our "Main Scene" - the one that runs automatically
when the game launches. Press the "Play" button and select ``main.tscn`` when
prompted.

.. tip:: If you had already set another scene as the "Main Scene", you can right
         click ``main.tscn`` in the FileSystem dock and select "Set As Main Scene".

You should be able to move the player around, see mobs spawning, and see the
player disappear when hit by a mob.

When you're sure everything is working, remove the call to ``new_game()`` from
``_ready()`` and replace it with ``pass``.

What's our game lacking? Some user interface. In the next lesson, we'll add a
title screen and display the player's score.

Commit message:

Add needed signal connection steps for timers

getting_started/first_2d_game/05.the_main_game_scene.rst, after:

.. _doc_your_first_2d_game_the_main_game_scene:

The main game scene
===================

Now it's time to bring everything we did together into a playable game scene.

Create a new scene and add a :ref:`Node <class_Node>` named ``Main``.
(The reason we are using Node instead of Node2D is because this node will
be a container for handling game logic. It does not require 2D functionality itself.)

Click the **Instance** button (represented by a chain link icon) and select your saved
``player.tscn``.

.. image:: img/instance_scene.webp

Now, add the following nodes as children of ``Main``, and name them as shown:

- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``MobTimer``) - to control how often mobs
  spawn
- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``ScoreTimer``) - to increment the score
  every second
- :ref:`Timer <class_Timer>` (named ``StartTimer``) - to give a delay before
  starting
- :ref:`Marker2D <class_Marker2D>` (named ``StartPosition``) - to indicate
  the player's start position

Set the ``Wait Time`` property of each of the ``Timer`` nodes as follows (values are in seconds):

- ``MobTimer``: ``0.5``
- ``ScoreTimer``: ``1``
- ``StartTimer``: ``2``

In addition, set the ``One Shot`` property of ``StartTimer`` to "On" and set
``Position`` of the ``StartPosition`` node to ``(240, 450)``.

Spawning mobs
-------------

The Main node will be spawning new mobs, and we want them to appear at a random
location on the edge of the screen. Add a :ref:`Path2D <class_Path2D>` node
named ``MobPath`` as a child of ``Main``. When you select ``Path2D``, you will
see some new buttons at the top of the editor:

.. image:: img/path2d_buttons.webp

Select the middle one ("Add Point") and draw the path by clicking to add the
points at the corners shown. To have the points snap to the grid, make sure "Use
Grid Snap" and "Use Smart Snap" are both selected. These options can be found to the
left of the "Lock" button, appearing as a magnet next to some dots and
intersecting lines, respectively.

.. image:: img/grid_snap_button.webp

.. important:: Draw the path in *clockwise* order, or your mobs will spawn
               pointing *outwards* instead of *inwards*!

.. image:: img/draw_path2d.gif

After placing point ``4`` in the image, click the "Close Curve" button and your
curve will be complete.

Now that the path is defined, add a :ref:`PathFollow2D <class_PathFollow2D>`
node as a child of ``MobPath`` and name it ``MobSpawnLocation``. This node will
automatically rotate and follow the path as it moves, so we can use it to select
a random position and direction along the path.

Your scene should look like this:

.. image:: img/main_scene_nodes.webp

Main script
-----------

Add a script to ``Main``. At the top of the script, we use
``@export var mob_scene: PackedScene`` to allow us to choose the Mob scene we want
to instance.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    extends Node

    @export var mob_scene: PackedScene
    var score

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    using Godot;

    public partial class Main : Node
    {
        // Don't forget to rebuild the project so the editor knows about the new export variable.

        [Export]
        public PackedScene MobScene { get; set; }

        private int _score;
    }

Click the ``Main`` node and you will see the ``Mob Scene`` property in the Inspector
under "Main.gd".

You can assign this property's value in two ways:

- Drag ``mob.tscn`` from the "FileSystem" dock and drop it in the **Mob Scene**
  property.
- Click the down arrow next to "[empty]" and choose "Load". Select ``mob.tscn``.

Next, select the instance of the ``Player`` scene under ``Main`` node in the Scene dock,
and access the Node dock on the sidebar. Make sure to have the Signals tab selected
in the Node dock.

You should see a list of the signals for the ``Player`` node. Find and
double-click the ``hit`` signal in the list (or right-click it and select
"Connect..."). This will open the signal connection dialog. We want to make a
new function named ``game_over``, which will handle what needs to happen when a
game ends. Type "game_over" in the "Receiver Method" box at the bottom of the
signal connection dialog and click "Connect". You are aiming to have the ``hit`` signal
emitted from ``Player`` and handled in the ``Main`` script. Add the following code
to the new function, as well as a ``new_game`` function that will set
everything up for a new game:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func game_over():
        $ScoreTimer.stop()
        $MobTimer.stop()

    func new_game():
        score = 0
        $Player.start($StartPosition.position)
        $StartTimer.start()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    public void GameOver()
    {
        GetNode<Timer>("MobTimer").Stop();
        GetNode<Timer>("ScoreTimer").Stop();
    }

    public void NewGame()
    {
        _score = 0;

        var player = GetNode<Player>("Player");
        var startPosition = GetNode<Marker2D>("StartPosition");
        player.Start(startPosition.Position);

        GetNode<Timer>("StartTimer").Start();
    }

Now to connect the ``timeout()`` signal of each Timer node (``StartTimer``,
``ScoreTimer``, and ``MobTimer``) to the main script. For each of the three
timers, select the timer within the Main node in the Scene dock, and then
access the Node dock on the sidebar, making to have the Signals tab selected
in the Node dock, then find and double-click the ``timeout`` signal in the
list (or right-click and select "Connect..."). This will open a new signal
connection dialog. The default settings in this dialog should be fine, so
select 'Connect' to resolve the dialog box and make a new signal connection.

Once all three timers have this set up, you should be able to see each timer
have a Signal connection for their respective ``timeout`` signal, showing in
green, within their respective Signals tabs:

- (For MobTimer): ``_on_mob_timer_timeout()``
- (For ScoreTimer): ``_on_score_timer_timeout()``
- (For StartTimer): ``_on_start_timer_timeout()``

Now we define how each of these timers operate by adding the code below. Notice
that ``StartTimer`` will start the other two timers, and that ``ScoreTimer``
will increment the score by 1.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _on_score_timer_timeout():
        score += 1

    func _on_start_timer_timeout():
        $MobTimer.start()
        $ScoreTimer.start()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnScoreTimerTimeout()
    {
        _score++;
    }

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnStartTimerTimeout()
    {
        GetNode<Timer>("MobTimer").Start();
        GetNode<Timer>("ScoreTimer").Start();
    }

In ``_on_mob_timer_timeout()``, we will create a mob instance, pick a random
starting location along the ``Path2D``, and set the mob in motion. The
``PathFollow2D`` node will automatically rotate as it follows the path, so we
will use that to select the mob's direction as well as its position.
When we spawn a mob, we'll pick a random value between ``150.0`` and
``250.0`` for how fast each mob will move (it would be boring if they were
all moving at the same speed).

Note that a new instance must be added to the scene using ``add_child()``.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _on_mob_timer_timeout():
        # Create a new instance of the Mob scene.
        var mob = mob_scene.instantiate()

        # Choose a random location on Path2D.
        var mob_spawn_location = $MobPath/MobSpawnLocation
        mob_spawn_location.progress_ratio = randf()

        # Set the mob's position to the random location.
        mob.position = mob_spawn_location.position

        # Set the mob's direction perpendicular to the path direction.
        var direction = mob_spawn_location.rotation + PI / 2

        # Add some randomness to the direction.
        direction += randf_range(-PI / 4, PI / 4)
        mob.rotation = direction

        # Choose the velocity for the mob.
        var velocity = Vector2(randf_range(150.0, 250.0), 0.0)
        mob.linear_velocity = velocity.rotated(direction)

        # Spawn the mob by adding it to the Main scene.
        add_child(mob)

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    // We also specified this function name in PascalCase in the editor's connection window.
    private void OnMobTimerTimeout()
    {
        // Create a new instance of the Mob scene.
        Mob mob = MobScene.Instantiate<Mob>();

        // Choose a random location on Path2D.
        var mobSpawnLocation = GetNode<PathFollow2D>("MobPath/MobSpawnLocation");
        mobSpawnLocation.ProgressRatio = GD.Randf();

        // Set the mob's direction perpendicular to the path direction.
        float direction = mobSpawnLocation.Rotation + Mathf.Pi / 2;

        // Set the mob's position to a random location.
        mob.Position = mobSpawnLocation.Position;

        // Add some randomness to the direction.
        direction += (float)GD.RandRange(-Mathf.Pi / 4, Mathf.Pi / 4);
        mob.Rotation = direction;

        // Choose the velocity.
        var velocity = new Vector2((float)GD.RandRange(150.0, 250.0), 0);
        mob.LinearVelocity = velocity.Rotated(direction);

        // Spawn the mob by adding it to the Main scene.
        AddChild(mob);
    }

.. important:: Why ``PI``? In functions requiring angles, Godot uses *radians*,
               not degrees. Pi represents a half turn in radians, about
               ``3.1415`` (there is also ``TAU`` which is equal to ``2 * PI``).
               If you're more comfortable working with degrees, you'll need to
               use the ``deg_to_rad()`` and ``rad_to_deg()`` functions to
               convert between the two.

Testing the scene
-----------------

Let's test the scene to make sure everything is working. Add this ``new_game``
call to ``_ready()``:

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    func _ready():
        new_game()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        NewGame();
    }

Let's also assign ``Main`` as our "Main Scene" - the one that runs automatically
when the game launches. Press the "Play" button and select ``main.tscn`` when
prompted.

.. tip:: If you had already set another scene as the "Main Scene", you can right
         click ``main.tscn`` in the FileSystem dock and select "Set As Main Scene".

You should be able to move the player around, see mobs spawning, and see the
player disappear when hit by a mob.

When you're sure everything is working, remove the call to ``new_game()`` from
``_ready()`` and replace it with ``pass``.

What's our game lacking? Some user interface. In the next lesson, we'll add a
title screen and display the player's score.
