contributing/documentation/contributing_to_the_documentation.rst, before:

.. _doc_contributing_to_the_documentation:

Contributing to the documentation
=================================

This guide explains how to contribute to Godot's documentation, be it by
writing or reviewing pages.

.. seealso::

   If you want to translate pages or the class reference from English to other
   languages, read :ref:`doc_editor_and_docs_localization`.

Getting started
---------------

To modify or create pages in the reference manual, you need to edit ``.rst``
files in the `godot-docs GitHub repository
<https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs>`_. Modifying those pages in a pull
request triggers a rebuild of the online documentation upon merging.

.. seealso:: For details on Git usage and the pull request workflow, please
             refer to the :ref:`doc_pr_workflow` page. Most of what it describes
             regarding the main godotengine/godot repository is also valid for
             the docs repository.

.. warning:: The class reference's source files are in the `Godot engine
             repository <https://github.com/godotengine/godot>`_. We generate
             the :ref:`Class Reference <doc_class_reference>` section of this documentation
             from them. If you want to update the description of a class, its
             methods, or properties, read
             :ref:`doc_updating_the_class_reference`.

What is the Godot documentation
-------------------------------

The Godot documentation is intended as a comprehensive reference manual for the
Godot game engine. It is not meant to contain step-by-step tutorials, except for
two game creation tutorials in the Getting Started section.

We strive to write factual content in an accessible and well-written language. To
contribute, you should also read:

1. :ref:`doc_docs_writing_guidelines`. There, you will find rules and
   recommendations to write in a way that everyone understands.
2. :ref:`doc_content_guidelines`. They explain the principles we follow to write the
   documentation and the kind of content we accept.

Contributing changes
--------------------

**Pull Requests should use the** ``master`` **branch by default.** Only make Pull
Requests against other branches (e.g. ``2.1`` or ``3.0``) if your changes only
apply to that specific version of Godot.

Though less convenient to edit than a wiki, this Git repository is where we
write the documentation. Having direct access to the source files in a revision
control system is a plus to ensure our documentation quality.

Editing existing pages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To edit an existing page, locate its ``.rst`` source file and open it in your
favorite text editor. You can then commit the changes, push them to your fork,
and make a pull request. **Note that the pages in** ``classes/`` **should not be
edited here.** They are automatically generated from Godot's `XML class
reference <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes>`__.
See :ref:`doc_updating_the_class_reference` for details.

.. seealso:: To build the manual and test changes on your computer, see
             :ref:`doc_building_the_manual`.

Editing pages online
--------------------

You can edit the documentation online by clicking the **Edit on GitHub** link in
the top-right of every page.

Doing so takes you to the GitHub text editor. You need to have a GitHub account
and to log in to use it. Once logged in, you can propose change like so:

1. Click the **Edit on GitHub** button.

2. On the GitHub page you're taken to, click the pencil icon in the top-right
   corner near the **Raw**, **Blame**, and **Delete** buttons. It has the
   tooltip "Fork this project and edit the file".

3. Edit the text in the text editor.

4. At the bottom of the web page, summarize the changes you made and click the
   button **Propose file change**. Make sure to replace the placeholder "Update file.rst"
   by a short, but clear one-line description, as this is the commit title.

5. On the following screens, click the **Create pull request** button until you
   see a message like *Username wants to merge 1 commit into godotengine:master
   from Username:patch-1*.

Another contributor will review your changes and merge them into the docs if
they're good. They may also make changes or ask you to do so before merging.

Adding new pages
----------------

Before adding a new page, please ensure that it fits in the documentation:

1. Look for `existing issues
   <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues>`_ or open a new one to see
   if the page is necessary.
2. Ensure there isn't a page that already covers the topic.
3. Read our :ref:`doc_content_guidelines`.

To add a new page, create a ``.rst`` file with a meaningful name in the section you
want to add a file to, e.g. ``tutorials/3d/light_baking.rst``.

You should then add your page to the relevant "toctree" (table of contents,
e.g. ``tutorials/3d/index.rst``). Add your new filename to the list on a new
line, using a relative path and no extension, e.g. here ``light_baking``.

Titles
~~~~~~

Always begin pages with their title and a Sphinx reference name:

::

    .. _doc_insert_your_title_here:

    Insert your title here
    ======================

The reference ``_doc_insert_your_title_here`` and the title should match.

The reference allows linking to this page using the ``:ref:`` format, e.g.
``:ref:`doc_insert_your_title_here``` would link to the above example page (note
the lack of leading underscore in the reference).

Write your titles like plain sentences, without capitalizing each word:

-  **Good:** Understanding signals in Godot
-  **Bad:** Understanding Signals In Godot

Only proper nouns, projects, people, and node class names should have their
first letter capitalized.

Sphinx and reStructuredText syntax
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check Sphinx's `reST Primer <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/rest.html>`__
and the `official reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html>`__ for
details on the syntax.

Sphinx uses specific reST comments to do specific operations, like defining the
table of contents (``.. toctree::``) or cross-referencing pages. Check the
`official Sphinx documentation
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/index.html>`__ for more details. To learn
how to use Sphinx directives like ``.. note::`` or ``.. seealso::``, check out
the `Sphinx directives documentation
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html>`__.

Adding images and attachments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add images, please put them in an ``img/`` folder next to the ``.rst`` file with
a meaningful name and include them in your page with:

.. code:: rst

   .. image:: img/image_name.webp

Alternatively, you can use the `figure` directive, which gives the image a contrasting
border and allows centering it on the page.

.. code:: rst

    .. figure:: img/image_name.webp
        :align: center

You can also include attachments as support material for a tutorial, by placing them
into a ``files/`` folder next to the ``.rst`` file, and using this inline markup:

.. code:: rst

   :download:`file_name.zip <files/file_name.zip>`

Consider using the `godot-docs-project-starters <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs-project-starters>`
repository for hosting support materials, such as project templates and asset packs.
You can use a direct link to the generated archive from that repository with the regular
link markup:

.. code:: rst

   `file_name.zip <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs-project-starters/releases/download/latest-4.x/file_name.zip>`_


License
-------

This documentation and every page it contains is published under the terms of
the `Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license (CC BY 3.0)
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/>`_, with attribution to "Juan
Linietsky, Ariel Manzur and the Godot community".

By contributing to the documentation on the GitHub repository, you agree that
your changes are distributed under this license.

Commit message:

update editing pages online instructions in contributing_to_the_documentation.rst
add current branch instructions
add note about incorrect origin symptom
update text describing github ui

contributing/documentation/contributing_to_the_documentation.rst, after:

.. _doc_contributing_to_the_documentation:

Contributing to the documentation
=================================

This guide explains how to contribute to Godot's documentation, be it by
writing or reviewing pages.

.. seealso::

   If you want to translate pages or the class reference from English to other
   languages, read :ref:`doc_editor_and_docs_localization`.

Getting started
---------------

To modify or create pages in the reference manual, you need to edit ``.rst``
files in the `godot-docs GitHub repository
<https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs>`_. Modifying those pages in a pull
request triggers a rebuild of the online documentation upon merging.

.. seealso:: For details on Git usage and the pull request workflow, please
             refer to the :ref:`doc_pr_workflow` page. Most of what it describes
             regarding the main godotengine/godot repository is also valid for
             the docs repository.

.. warning:: The class reference's source files are in the `Godot engine
             repository <https://github.com/godotengine/godot>`_. We generate
             the :ref:`Class Reference <doc_class_reference>` section of this documentation
             from them. If you want to update the description of a class, its
             methods, or properties, read
             :ref:`doc_updating_the_class_reference`.

What is the Godot documentation
-------------------------------

The Godot documentation is intended as a comprehensive reference manual for the
Godot game engine. It is not meant to contain step-by-step tutorials, except for
two game creation tutorials in the Getting Started section.

We strive to write factual content in an accessible and well-written language. To
contribute, you should also read:

1. :ref:`doc_docs_writing_guidelines`. There, you will find rules and
   recommendations to write in a way that everyone understands.
2. :ref:`doc_content_guidelines`. They explain the principles we follow to write the
   documentation and the kind of content we accept.

Contributing changes
--------------------

**Pull Requests should use the** ``master`` **branch by default.** Only make Pull
Requests against other branches (e.g. ``2.1`` or ``3.0``) if your changes only
apply to that specific version of Godot.

Though less convenient to edit than a wiki, this Git repository is where we
write the documentation. Having direct access to the source files in a revision
control system is a plus to ensure our documentation quality.

Editing existing pages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To edit an existing page, locate its ``.rst`` source file and open it in your
favorite text editor. You can then commit the changes, push them to your fork,
and make a pull request. **Note that the pages in** ``classes/`` **should not be
edited here.** They are automatically generated from Godot's `XML class
reference <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes>`__.
See :ref:`doc_updating_the_class_reference` for details.

.. seealso:: To build the manual and test changes on your computer, see
             :ref:`doc_building_the_manual`.

Editing pages online
--------------------

You can edit the documentation online by clicking the **Edit on GitHub** link in
the top-right of every page.

Doing so takes you to the GitHub text editor. You need to have a GitHub account
and to log in to use it. Once logged in, you can propose change like so:

1. Click the **Edit on GitHub** button.

2. On the GitHub page you're taken to, make sure the current branch is "master".
   Click the pencil icon in the top-right corner
   near the **Raw**, **Blame**, and **Delete** buttons.
   It has the tooltip "Fork this project and edit the file".

3. Edit the text in the text editor.

4. Click "Commit changes...", summarize the changes you made
   and make sure to replace the placeholder "Update file.rst" by a short,
   but clear one-line description, as this is the commit title.
   Click the button **Propose changes**.

5. On the following screens, click the **Create pull request** button until you
   see a message like *Username wants to merge 1 commit into godotengine:master
   from Username:patch-1*.

.. note::

   If there are more commits than your own in the pull request
   it is likely that your branch was created using the wrong origin,
   due to "master" not being the current branch in step 2.
   You will need to rebase your branch to "master" or create a new branch.

Another contributor will review your changes and merge them into the docs if
they're good. They may also make changes or ask you to do so before merging.

Adding new pages
----------------

Before adding a new page, please ensure that it fits in the documentation:

1. Look for `existing issues
   <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues>`_ or open a new one to see
   if the page is necessary.
2. Ensure there isn't a page that already covers the topic.
3. Read our :ref:`doc_content_guidelines`.

To add a new page, create a ``.rst`` file with a meaningful name in the section you
want to add a file to, e.g. ``tutorials/3d/light_baking.rst``.

You should then add your page to the relevant "toctree" (table of contents,
e.g. ``tutorials/3d/index.rst``). Add your new filename to the list on a new
line, using a relative path and no extension, e.g. here ``light_baking``.

Titles
~~~~~~

Always begin pages with their title and a Sphinx reference name:

::

    .. _doc_insert_your_title_here:

    Insert your title here
    ======================

The reference ``_doc_insert_your_title_here`` and the title should match.

The reference allows linking to this page using the ``:ref:`` format, e.g.
``:ref:`doc_insert_your_title_here``` would link to the above example page (note
the lack of leading underscore in the reference).

Write your titles like plain sentences, without capitalizing each word:

-  **Good:** Understanding signals in Godot
-  **Bad:** Understanding Signals In Godot

Only proper nouns, projects, people, and node class names should have their
first letter capitalized.

Sphinx and reStructuredText syntax
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check Sphinx's `reST Primer <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/rest.html>`__
and the `official reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html>`__ for
details on the syntax.

Sphinx uses specific reST comments to do specific operations, like defining the
table of contents (``.. toctree::``) or cross-referencing pages. Check the
`official Sphinx documentation
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/index.html>`__ for more details. To learn
how to use Sphinx directives like ``.. note::`` or ``.. seealso::``, check out
the `Sphinx directives documentation
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html>`__.

Adding images and attachments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add images, please put them in an ``img/`` folder next to the ``.rst`` file with
a meaningful name and include them in your page with:

.. code:: rst

   .. image:: img/image_name.webp

Alternatively, you can use the `figure` directive, which gives the image a contrasting
border and allows centering it on the page.

.. code:: rst

    .. figure:: img/image_name.webp
        :align: center

You can also include attachments as support material for a tutorial, by placing them
into a ``files/`` folder next to the ``.rst`` file, and using this inline markup:

.. code:: rst

   :download:`file_name.zip <files/file_name.zip>`

Consider using the `godot-docs-project-starters <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs-project-starters>`
repository for hosting support materials, such as project templates and asset packs.
You can use a direct link to the generated archive from that repository with the regular
link markup:

.. code:: rst

   `file_name.zip <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs-project-starters/releases/download/latest-4.x/file_name.zip>`_


License
-------

This documentation and every page it contains is published under the terms of
the `Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license (CC BY 3.0)
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/>`_, with attribution to "Juan
Linietsky, Ariel Manzur and the Godot community".

By contributing to the documentation on the GitHub repository, you agree that
your changes are distributed under this license.
